2020	Estimation of residential electricity demand in korea allowing for a structural breakThis study examines the time series characteristics of residential electricity demand and its determinants in Korea and the short-run and long-run relationship among them. We employ unit root tests, cointegration, and error-correction models on annual time series for the period 1972?2019. The rapid development of Korea over this period provides clear evidence of the possibility of structural breaks. We find that residential electricity demand and its determinants are trend-stationary processes with a slope change, which implies that there is no need to invoke cointegration methods under the unit root assumption. We expect that the essential modeling strategy presented in this article will be widely applicable.
2020	Capital Markets for Small- and Medium-sized Enterprises and Startups in KoreaThis study describes the structure of the capital markets for small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and startup companies in Korea, which is an emerging market that has experienced drastic changes. The overall capital market can be divided into private and public capital markets. In the private capital market, most of the demand for capital comes from non-listed private firms, including startups and SMEs. In the case of SMEs and startups, the KOSDAQ, the Korea New Exchange (KONEX), and primary collateralized bond obligations (P-CBOs) are part of the public capital market. SMEs and startups are generally incapable of raising sufficient capital owing to their low credit ratings, and they largely have limited access to primary markets to issue shares and borrow money. The Korean government has developed a systematic financial aid program to provide funds to these companies. The fund for SMEs has significantly contributed to the development of the venture capital market. Many Korean banks provide substantial lending to SMEs, but this lending is available only because of the Korean government's loan recovery guarantee. Furthermore, SMEs can issue corporate debt in the form of primary collateralized bond obligations through government guarantees, but such debt issuances have placed increasing pressure on public guarantee institutions.
2020	Navigating innovation success through projects. Role of CEO transformational leadership, project management best practices, and project management technology quotientIn an advancing project-based global economy, the ability to leverage innovation, and the adoption of disruptive technologies are critical for product and process innovation success. This study makes the initial attempt to examine the effects of CEO transformational leadership (CTL), project management best practices (PMBP), and project management technology quotient (PMTQ) on multi-dimensional innovation success. Drawing on data of 261 practitioners in the information and communications technology industry in South Korea, the hypothesized relationships were tested using higher-order partial least squares structural equation modeling (PLS-SEM). The study finds supportive evidence on the positive effects of CTL, PMBP, and PMTQ on innovation success. Moreover, PMBP and PMTQ demonstrated a significant moderating influence on the relationship between CTL and innovation success. Besides the development and validation of a new PMTQ scale, the study findings offer novel theoretical predictions, methodological contributions, and implications for practitioners to mitigate the challenges of successful innovations.
2020	The government R&amp;D funding and management performance: The mediating effect of technology innovationKorea’s small-and medium-sized enterprises are desperate to improve their performance through engaging in technological innovation, due to the fierce competition prevalent in a low growth economic environment. However, most small-and medium-sized enterprises are having difficulty responding to changes in the economic environment due to the challenge of developing their own technologies and their limited resources. The aim of this study is to assess whether government financial support for R&D aimed at small-and medium-sized enterprises has contributed to improvements in their business management performance. The sample of this study was comprised of 105 KOSDAQ-listed small-and medium-sized enterprises with experience in technology development. The empirical analysis was conducted on the basis of the mediating effect measurement method of Baron and Kenny (1986). It was found that company technological innovation capabilities have a positive effect on management performance, and in particular, that the majority of companies that received government financial support for R&D have improved their management performance. Therefore, it is recommended that small-and medium-sized companies take an active part in various government R&D financial support programs and make efforts to strengthen their technological innovation in areas such as their product service and process innovation capabilities.
2020	South Korea’s outward direct investment and its dyadic determinants: Foreign aid, bilateral treaty and economic diplomacyThis study investigates the factors that affect South Korean outward foreign direct investment (FDI) in developing countries. Most previous studies focus on monadic factors and do not consider how and to what extent bilateral relationships between South Korea and the host countries affect the investment decisions of Korean firms. The current study finds that interstate factors such as South Korea's international investment treaties with and official development assistance to host countries have positive effects on FDI to these countries, while presidential visits have strong and statistically significant effects on FDI only in countries located in non-Asian regions, especially the African continent. The findings suggest that the effects of bilateral relations on South Korea's FDI vary depending on the geographic location of the host country.
2020	Two models of community-centered development in MyanmarCommunity-centered development (CCD) has gained renewed interest as a means of providing aid to fragile states. This paper aims to explore how CCD aid projects in a fragile state are shaped by distinctive ideologies. Using document reviews, stakeholder interviews, and spatial analysis, this paper analyzes two aid projects in Myanmar: the Korean government-supported Saemaul Undong (SMU, New Village Movement) and the World Bank-supported National Community-Driven Development Project (NCDDP). Each project reflects the perspectives of the developmental state and revised neoliberalism, respectively. This study finds that the intervention strategies of SMU and NCDDP differ in terms of their main agency of change, handling of power, and prioritized dimensions of development. SMU engages with government extension workers as change agents, and ties accountability to performance. By contrast, the NCDDP works with private facilitators and emphasizes the processes of inclusion. This paper suggests that one useful tool for CCD intervention is the deconstruction and integration of East Asian/Southern and Western/Northern approaches.
2020	Do Spending on R&amp;D Influence Income? An Enquiry on the World’s Leading Economies and GroupsThe study examines the interplays between R&D-GDP ratio and levels, and growth of per capita GDP of top ten countries in R&D expenditure and economies of different groups in both long and short runs during 1996?2017. The results show that R&D expenditure and per capita GDP growth rates have long-run associations for high-income and upper-middle-income groups along with Japan, Germany, South Korea, France, UK, India, and Brazil, and errors are corrected for all. Further, per capita GDP growth is the cause of R&D for OECD, upper-middle-, and low- and middle-income groups along with Japan, and R&D is the cause to per capita GDP for India, Russia, and Brazil. Finally, there is bilateral causality between the two for USA, China, and South Korea. Interestingly, there are no true long-run associations between R&D and per capita GDP, although some short-run interplays are there. Hence, the study prescribes that excessive spending in R&D at the cost of other sectors needs to be reviewed.
2020	Assessment of Korea’s FTAs: Focusing on trade remedies rulesPurpose - We assess the trade remedies rules in a host of Korea’s FTAs to explore the trade policies for the effective implementation of FTA trade remedies rules. Also we develop the strategies of the future FTA negotiations of trade remedies rules. Design/methodology - After we review the key features of FTA trade remedies rules, we examine whether the rules are WTO-consistent or not. Next, we touch upon the WTO-plus characteristics of some provisions. Our main methodology is to compare the trade remedies rules in the numerous Korea’s FTAs. Another methodology is to link those rules to the relevant WTO agreements and WTO dispute cases with a view to drawing lessons for trade policies and FTA negotiations. Findings - We find that most of the trade remedies rules are WTO-consistent. Moreover, we find that notification and consultation requirment, mandatory lesser duty rule, explicit prohibition of zeroing method, and public interest clause are WTO-plus. We also find that there are limitiations in the application of some global safeguard exclusion rules because of their non-mandatory nature. Originality/value - While most of previous studies focus mainly on the unique aspects of specific FTAs, our study analyzes comprehensively the trade remedies rules in the various Korea’s FTAs. Based on the comprehensive analysis, we figure out the areas to be clarified and improved for the effective implementation of FTAs and the strategies for the future FTA trade remedies negotiations. As a consequence, our paper is expected to contribute to the academic research on FTA policies as well as the national economy.
2020	Exploring the Nature of Whistle Blowing in Organizations in Asia: An Integrative PerspectiveThis paper aims to synthesize and identified several constraints of the research literature about whistleblowing and its impact on the organizations from the human resource and organizational behavior point of view. The importance of study concerning whistleblowing is an important trend in this today fraudulent world, however to our knowledge an integrative review in this sense is limited. By looking at the impact of whistleblowing act in collectivist culture, especially from the Asian perspective would give an impact to the development of the studies in the future. This review using an integrative review with the distribution of databases including Sciencedirect, EBSCO, JSTOR and soon using several terms including whistleblowing and collectivist of research published during 2003 to 2018. Thirty five papers were identified, analyzed, and capturing data of research located in several Asian countries such as China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand and Turkey. The findings of this review reveals that despite a positive trend of whistleblowing research in collectivist culture, the importance to increase human resource and organizational behavior aspects also lead to positive ethic climate in organization. Human resource and organizational behavior aspects to be found have a significance role in creating ethical culture in the organization.
2020	The labor market effects of the China Syndrome: Evidence from South Korean manufacturingWe evaluate the direct impact of China trade shock on the Korean labour market following the approach of Acemoglu, Autor, Dorn, Hanson, and Price (Journal of Labor Economics, 2016, 34, S1). Using firm- and industry-level data for the period 1993?2013, our direct estimates imply that the net employment effect of the China shock in the manufacturing sector is the creation of 0.52?million jobs. The positive impact is mostly driven by China's rising demand for intermediate inputs and capital goods from Korea to support its export expansion to the global economy. The import-competition channel plays a negligible role in manufacturing employment because it creates temporary jobs that merely compensate for the loss in permanent jobs. By contrast, over the same period, the average wage declined by 2.4%, and income inequality, measured as the gap between the high- and low-income quantile, grew substantially in manufacturing. In addition, we find that the direct effect of China shock lowers labour market concentration by shifting workers from big firms to small- and medium-sized firms.
2020	Network Connectedness among Northeast Asian Financial MarketsDespite the increasing interest in the topic of international transmission of financial markets, the Northeast Asian region has received little attention concerning connectedness among financial markets. This article discusses network connectedness among financial markets in the Northeast Asian region. In particular, we investigate various aspects of international linkage across different asset-class (stock, bond, foreign exchange) markets in China, Japan, and Korea. The basic finding is that the connectedness among Northeast Asian countries seems rather weak, while the US markets are an important source of network effects on financial markets in this region. As for the dynamic aspects of connectedness, we observe time-varying patterns in connectedness measures, with a surge around the GFC. Also presented evidence that China has become more influential with the development of Chinese financial markets since the “new normal (Xinchangtai)” period.
2020	Who Benefits From the Governmental Support Policy for Innovative Firms and for How Long? Evidence From the Korean Venture Certification ProgramThis study evaluates the effects of the government’s support policies for innovative firms, for which small firms are eligible by way of a venture certification program in Korea. We analyze whether the effects of the innovative firms’ policies are heterogeneous across several dimensions. Specifically, we examine how policy effects vary along with the venture certification types, firm size, and age. We assess the short- and long-term effects of the certification program on the performance of certified firms. We find that the program is likely to help innovative and young firms enhance their sales, employment and labor productivity over time. Moreover, the impact of the program is bigger for firms that are financed by venture capital, smaller in size (less than 20 employees) and younger (less than 5 years). In contrast, the support policies for innovative firms were somehow ineffective for firms that are research and development-intensive, medium sized (more than 100 and less than 300 employees) or older (more than 10 years).
2020	The new ecosystem of cross-border e-commerce among Korea, China and Japan based on blockchainPurpose - The purpose of the study is to propose a theoretical framework of cross-border e-commerce ecosystems based on blockchain technology. The ecosystem includes five systems, namely, crossborder supply chain intelligent system, cross-border logistics system, cross-border payment system, cross-border product quality traceability system and cross-border customs supervision system. Design/methodology - This study firstly derived the main improvement factors for the new ecosystem based on blockchain through prior research and expert interviews on cross-border e-commerce. Then explored the use of virtue of decentralization, anti-counterfeiting traceability, consensus mechanism, smart contract and other means of the core technology of blockchain to overcome the bottleneck of cross-border e-commerce development among Korea, China, and Japan. Finally, proposed valuable implications in both theoretical and practical perspectives. Findings - As a result, we combined with the problems existing in cross-border e-commerce among Korea, China and Japan, this paper proposes a solution based on blockchain. On this basis, it constructs a cross-border e-commerce ecosystem among these three countries, including five systems. In addition, we discuss the main problems existing in the current blockchain, such as low transaction concurrency, security loopholes, and inconsistent standards, the corresponding countermeasures are proposed from the technical level, security level and industry standards. Originality/value - This study is the first to apply the blockchain technology to solve the cross-border e-commerce problems in Korea, China and Japan, which is of pioneering significance in both literature and practice. Block chain technology is in the ascendency. This study provides technical solutions for promoting the development of cross-border e-commerce import and export trade between Korea, China and Japan.
2020	Association modeling on keyword and abstract data in korean port researchPurpose - This study investigates research trends by searching for English keywords and abstracts in 1,511 Korean journal articles in the Korea Citation Index from the 2002-2019 period using the term “Port.” The study aims to lay the foundation for a more balanced development of port research. Design/methodology - Using abstract and keyword data, we perform frequency analysis and word embedding (Word2vec). A t-SNE plot shows the main keywords extracted using the TextRank algorithm. To analyze which words were used in what context in our two nine-year subperiods (2002- 2010 and 2010-2019), we use Scattertext and scaled F-scores. Findings - First, during the 18-year study period, port research has developed through the convergence of diverse academic fields, covering 102 subject areas and 219 journals. Second, our frequency analysis of 4,431 keywords in 1,511 papers shows that the words “Port” (60 times), “Port Competitiveness” (33 times), and “Port Authority” (29 times), among others, are attractive to most researchers. Third, a word embedding analysis identifies the words highly correlated with the top eight keywords and visually shows four different subject clusters in a t-SNE plot. Fourth, we use Scattertext to compare words used in the two research sub-periods. Originality/value - This study is the first to apply abstract and keyword analysis and various text mining techniques to Korean journal articles in port research and thus has important implications. Further in-depth studies should collect a greater variety of textual data and analyze and compare port studies from different countries.
2020	The Effect of Exporting on Creative Destruction and a Plant's Average Product Characteristics in Japan and KoreaThis paper examines whether exporting activity contributes to the promotion of creative destruction and the upgrading of a plant's product portfolio. We first present evidence that exporters tend to produce, on average, products with higher attributes than non-exporters. Next, we find evidence that exporting improves a plant's average product attributes, utilizing the propensity score difference-in-difference matching technique. Further examination of the mechanism reveals that the positive effect of exporting on a plant's average product attributes is more likely to be realized through its effect of adding higher-attribute products, a key feature of creative destruction within a firm, rather than through share changes among continuously produced products. The results suggest that exporting might have contributed to the sustained economic growth of Japan and Korea by promoting creative destruction.
2020	The competence of project team members and success factors with open innovationThe purpose of this paper is to examine the relationship between emotional, managerial, and intellectual competence of team members, which refer to the LDQ (Leadership Development Questionnaire) and impact on project success. (1) Background: Large and complex projects are being conducted in a dynamic business environment. The need for capabilities and managerial aspects of participants of the project for business performance increases. (2) Methods: A questionnaire survey was conducted on 164 project management professionals in various industries from Korea. The structural equation modeling technique was performed to establish the effect of competence of team members on project success factor. (3) Results: The results provided empirical support for the impact of team members' competencies on project success factor. Moreover, there is no difference in the perception of the impact of team members' competencies on project success factor, depending on their roles, such as project manager and team member. (4) Results: In this paper, the importance of the competence of team members in accordance with the project manager was presented. The findings of this study suggest the strategic direction of the members at this point when corporate innovation is needed.
2020	Uniqueness of Chinese patenting patterns: the case of grapheneThe article compares patenting patterns in China with the United States, South Korea, Japan and Europe, using the case of graphene, 2011?2015. It aims to reveal unique features of patenting in China and identify patent descriptors, diverging from international tendencies and relevant for economic modelling. Hypotheses rely on variables such as: counts of inventors, applicants, technology classes, countries selected for international patenting and geographical origins of patent citations. The research uses quantitative techniques (descriptive statistics, ANOVA, Jaccard index and social network metrics). Using multiple analytical perspectives, the study demonstrates the specificity of Chinese patents and their limited comparability with documents from other patent offices. This has important implications for the development of economic models, which need to take into account the identified incommensurability in cross-country patent data and avoid direct comparisons of data from China and other patent systems owing to the unique features and functions of patents in China.
2020	Industrial research and development and real exchange rate depreciation in a small open economyTo examine how changes in relative national prices affect innovation input, this paper studies the impact of changes in industry-specific effective real exchange rates on industrial R&D expenditures in Korea. In particular, it explores the heterogeneous responses of industries with different export intensities. Employing dynamic panel data estimation techniques, the results suggest that among industries with medium levels of export intensity a lagged depreciation in industry-specific effective real exchange rate leads to a decline in contemporaneous industry-level R&D expenditures. However, this adverse effect is insignificant for industries that either mostly serve the domestic markets or that are heavily engaged in foreign markets.
2020	Home care development in Korea and Germany: The interplay of long-term care and professionalization policiesThe aim of the study was to compare the effects of long-term care and professionalization policies on the development of home care infrastructure and the care workforce in reference to long-term care insurance systems adopted in Germany and Korea. A comparative analysis of the effects of the two policy systems allowed us to examine distinct forms of marketized home care service expansion. In both countries, the opening-up of care markets has brought about a significant expansion of home care services through the active participation of mainly for-profit providers. However, a trade-off between the rate of expansion, the quality of care services, and the stability of care infrastructure has emerged. The market-based expansion of home care services has resulted in difficult employment and working conditions for care workers in both countries. The country-specific organization of home care and related professionalization approaches has led to the development of a well-trained care workforce with less precarious conditions in Germany but not in Korea. Despite this difference, less well-trained care workers experience precarious employment in both countries.
2020	Industrial policy in the era of global value chains: Towards a developmentalist framework drawing on the industrialisation experiences of South Korea and TaiwanIn this paper, I present a framework for GVC-oriented industrial policy that merges the so-called GVC perspective and the so-called developmentalist perspective?the latter of which is a perspective that industrial policy is most often analysed through, but has been somewhat neglected by the GVC perspective. I argue that the GVC perspective too quickly dismisses the relevance of industrial policy in the East Asian development experience, particularly those in South Korea and Taiwan?between roughly 1960 and 1990. By drawing on the industrialisation experiences of these two countries, my framework for industrial policy suggests that the GVC perspective's?ideas for industrial policy would?be strengthened by more clearly acknowledging the continued importance of three observations by the developmentalist perspective: (a) the need for governments in developing countries to bargain with foreign investors for the purpose of domestic industrialisation; (b) policy design should not only focus on increasing exports, but also focus on replacing some imports with domestic production; and (c) linking up to the value chains of transnational corporations based in high-income countries can bring about some benefits, but ultimately, successful industrialisation necessitates a degree of?competing with transnational corporations. State-owned enterprises have historically played an important role in this respect.
2020	Understanding the role of China's domestic market in the (unequal) growth of world economyThis study investigates the rising role of China's domestic market expansion from 1995 to 2011 in the world economy's growth. China maintained high domestic expenditure growth during the entire period, with even bigger increases in the last years, when the global financial crisis and subsequent economic recovery occurred. The expenditures facilitated rapid growth through high demand for durable goods, which are produced across widely fragmented Asian channels. At the same time, China integrated further into the global economy and imported intermediate goods increasingly became embedded in goods for domestic sale. These two forces combined to magnify the impact of China's market expansion on foreign economies but disproportionately more on its neighbouring countries and sectors related to durable goods production. Specifically, our estimates suggest that the expenditure growth in China over the 2009?11 period added about 1 percentage point to the annual GDP growth rate in Taiwan, Malaysia and Korea, while the NAFTA and EU member countries typically benefited by less than 0.1 percentage point.
2020	Economic growth, total factor productivity, and institution quality in low-middle income countries in AsiaThe purpose of this paper is to investigate the impact of total factor productivity , institutional quality, and interactive variable between them on economic growth in 13 low-middle income countries in Asia for the period 2000-2018. The paper uses the difference Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) to explore the dataset provided by the World Bank. The empirical results show that TFP and the interactive variable positively impact on the economic growth, while the institutional determinants have a negative influence. The negative effect is explained by the weak institutions in these low-middle income countries. The findings of the study suggest two points. First, the government should continue to improve TFP, which is associated with the application of technical advances, technological innovations, improvement of management methods, and skilled workers. Second, far more important, is that the authorities should pay special attention to implement institutional reform and strengthen the governance in the future. The successful experiences from Japan, Korea and Singapore will help other governments in Asian low-middle income countries to build developmental state. Probably, the developmental state actively interfere in the market to promote and realize the development goals. By doing so, these economies might overcome the so-called "middle-income trap".
2020	Digital transformation enablers and barriers in the economy of KazakhstanThis study aims to analyze the digital performance of Kazakhstan through dynamic analysis of national statistics and international indices as Global Innovation Index and ICT Development Index. The research combines three stages: analysis of digital transformation policies performance, review of ICT industry development, and comparative analysis of the positions of Kazakhstan, Turkey and South Korea as a benchmark in the international indices. This research findings show that despite great efforts of Kazakhstan in digitalization, the ICT industry contribution does not increase, it even falls. The international indices demonstrate that the reason is the weakness of the country in skills, venture capital, and innovation linkages. This leads to low knowledge, technology outputs, and creative outputs. The enablers of digital and overall innovation advancement of economy are identified. According to the international rankings the country has been doing its best in Access and Use areas. Another enablers are good business environment, ease of starting a business, protecting minority investors, and FDI inflows. The findings help to draw recommendations for strategic directions in order to improve the digital performance in Kazakhstan. The main limitation of this study is a lack of dynamic information on positions of Kazakhstan in other international indices related to digitalization.
2020	Financial integration in asia: A systemic view on currency marketsUsing a systemic approach, this study investigates the time-varying linkages among currency markets of Japan, the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, and the five core ASEAN economies to understand financial integration in Asia. We first construct a vector autoregressive model and use the Diebold and Yilmaz (2014) approach to quantitatively identify the connectedness within the system, accompanied by a rolling-window approach to allow for time-varying dynamics and pairwise Granger causality tests to check the robustness of our main results. We find that though systemic interconnect-edness varies over time, the Singapore dollar is constantly a top net contributor, explaining most of the variation in East Asian currency markets.
2020	Does credit supply accelerate business cycle changes in Korea?: Some new evidence by incorporating regime changesThis work empirically investigates how commercial banks’ aggregate credit supply is associated with business cycle over different regimes of the Korean economy. Linear empirical models employed in most of previous studies are subject to a potential missapecification problem because it is well known that both real GDP and credit supply reveal different dynamic properties over different regimes. This work finds that credit supply has asymmetric effect on business cycle for expansion and contraction phases when the Smooth Transition Autoregressive Vector Error Correction Model (or STAR-VECM) is employed. Our empirical findings are as follows. Firstly, we find that credit supply has procyclical effect on real GDP in all phases. Secondly, the procyclical effects are significantly intensified especially in contractionary phases which indicates asymmetry of its effect. In sum, this result supports ‘Credit Acceleration Hypothesis’ of Bernanke et al. (1999). Lastly, we further find that real GDP has asymmetric effects on banks’ credit supply with countercyclical effect on expansionary regimes.
2020	Natural interest rate, potential GDP growth rate and long-term monetary policy stanceThe natural rate of interest is the real interest rate that would prevail when the macro economy is in its natural, long-term equilibrium at which the actual GDP growth rate equals its potential rate. The natural rate of interest should therefore comove with the long-term trend of the potential GDP growth. In addition, since monetary policy authority has a significant impact on real interest rates, the difference between real and natural interest rates can be the basis for determining the long-term policy stance for the real sector of the economy. This study estimates potential growth rates and natural interest rates in Korea and the United States based on the Holston et al. (2017) model with important adjustments. We use the real market interest rate faced by economic agents, which may be different from the traditional real rate computed using the policy rate. Also, GDP per capita is considered, which is theoretically more suitable when population growth is taken into account. The estimation results using these new measures and the associated adjustment in the model reveal that the estimated natural rate of interest captures the theoretical characteristics of the natural interest rate better than the estimate using standard real interest rate. In addition, since the 2000s, Korea’s real rate was much lower than the estimated natural interest rate, suggesting that the long-term monetary policy stance in Korea might have been strongly accommodating.
2020	Economic influences on air transport in Vietnam 2006?2019Vietnam has emerged from a long and complex post-colonial experience as a fast-growing economy now embedded in the complex network of economic linkages in the Asia-Pacific region. Those linkages involve trade, foreign direct investment, and tourism. Their underlying geography is reflected in the geography of Vietnam's air transport linkages. An early set of air connections with ASEAN neighbours, especially Singapore and Malaysia, are still significant, though routes to South Korea and China are now more important. Within the country, the colonial structure of Hanoi as a political capital, and Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh City) as a trading city, provided the framework for domestic air transport linkages. Here too the geography has shifted to include a set of smaller cities, especially those with tourism activities. The Hanoi-Ho Chi Minh City corridor is still dominant, and now ranks as one of the busiest domestic routes within the Asia-Pacific. These outcomes confirm the effect of economic development on air transport in Vietnam.
2020	Measuring the Natural Rate of Interest with Financial Gaps: The Cases of Japan and South KoreaWe estimate “finance-adjusted” trend growth and natural rates of Japan and South Korea by extending a semi-structural model of (Laubach and Williams, 2003). Consistent with international evidence of the advanced economies, both trend growth and natural rates of interest of Japan and South Korea have been declining over the past, suggesting the important role of global factors. However, the declining patterns of Japan and South Korea are far steeper during the past 25 years. When considering domestic and global financial factors, trend growth and natural rate of South Korea are more affected by foreign financial factor while the role of domestic financial factor is more pronounced for Japanese economy.
2020	Reappraisal of the Developmental Welfare State Theory on the Underdevelopment of State Welfare in East Asian Growth Economies: The Case of South KoreaThe purpose of this article is to re-examine the perspective on the relationship between East Asia’s growth economy and its underdevelopment of state welfare, by analyzing the Korean case between the 1960s and the 1980s, when active governmental intervention in the economy led to rapid economic growth. This article aims to answer the questions ‘Was state welfare genuinely underdeveloped under the growth economy of East Asia?’ and ‘If so, which factors hindered its development?’ To this end, this article first refutes the perspective regarding the underdevelopment of state welfare in East Asian growth economies, through an empirical analysis of the following: overlooking diverse indices in measuring the level of state welfare, a comparison without considering different budget systems, negligence of output aspects, giving undue value to quantitative methods and paying little attention to welfare beneficiary aspect. The article traces the reasons why the growth economy experienced the underdevelopment of state welfare using comprehensive frameworks: large-scale resource distribution to defense and education, low level of electoral competition, underdevelopment of socialist political parties, political authoritarianism and weak opposition, lack of social citizenship and preservation of family values, underdevelopment of trade unionism, and inactivation of civil society.
2020	The ex-dividend-day behavior of stock prices and volume: The case of pharmaceutical dividend aristocratsThis paper presents the wide analysis of the profitability factors of dividend capture strategy on public pharmaceutical companies within a five-year period after the global financial crisis 2008. We investigate the abnormal return and trading volumes with event study, and the effect of price changes around the ex-dividend date under the influence of various factors. Our findings suggest that there are no abnormal trading volumes on both the-1 day of the event window and the day of the event on a subsample of companies that do not declare a dividend before the register close date. We confirm the negative stock yield on the ex-dividend day in most markets. We further confirm the tax hypothesis explaining the behavior of the share price and note the specific behavior of stock prices in the ex-dividend date for companies that do not disclose information on future payments (Japan and South Korea) and on emerging markets. The positive average cumulative abnormal return is statistically significant only for companies with a share of R&D/Total revenue <3%. For companies with a value of more than 3%, the return is negative. An anomaly in the pharmaceutical stock market behavior in the ex-dividend date for 2016 is documented in our paper. A statistically significant price increase is registered both without taking into account the general market behavior, and taking into account market and individual expected return for each share of the sample. The cumulative abnormal returns are greater for pharma companies with a total enterprise value more than $1 billion, except for 2016.
2020	City size, labor productivity and wages in koreaThis study attempts to derive policy implications for spatially-balanced growth through empirical analysis on determinants of regional wage gaps in Korea. Combes et al. [(2008) Spatial wage disparities: Sorting Matters. Journal of Urban Economics, 63, 723-742] suggest that regional wage gaps result from the regional differences in workers' human capital, nonhuman endowments, and agglomeration economies. The current study applies a similar two-stage estimation model to the 2006 cross-sectional data for 4009 workers from the Korean Labor Panel Survey (KLPS) performed by the Korea Labor Institute. Localization economies are positive external effects from the geographic concentration of firms in the same industry. We find evidence of localization economies in our research. The second stage estimation results for the determinants of regional wage gaps show that the average wage is higher in areas that concentrate in a small number of industries rather than in areas that are diversified with many industries. This result is in direct contrast to the findings from Combes et al. [(2008) Spatial wage disparities: Sorting Matters. Journal of Urban Economics, 63, 723-742] who analyze the French labor market data. This difference can be explained by the possibility that in Korea the improved quality of life (e.g., better education services) and/or the increase in job mobility in large diversified metropolitan areas induce workers to accept relatively lower wages in those areas. In order to resolve the bias in the estimation of the agglomeration effects caused by the heterogeneity of workers, we also performed panel regressions of the 2nd 2000 and the 7th 2005 KLPS panel data of 7431 observations. The panel regression results also support our original findings from regressions of the 8th 2006 KLPS data.
2020	Does a firm’s access to external finance matter for its performance?This paper explores the role of a firms financial condition in determining a firms performance from 2008 to 2017 based on Korean firm-level data. We define the financial condition of a firm as measuring the firms need to access external financing and examine whether firms with a higher demand for external finance grow faster or slower than the other firms. We also examine to what extent the provision of loans to firms can promote the growth of those is in need of external financing. Our empirical analysis shows that the financial condition of a firm appears to be significant in deciding the firm's growth, by showing that firms that are short in internal cash flows tend to grow more slowly than those are not. However, provision of loans to those firms can mitigate the negative effects of financial condition on growth significantly. Those empirical results reaffirm the findings in the existing literature at the firm level and suggest that an appropriate supply of loans may be crucial for firms growth in an economy.
2020	What types of public R&amp;D support increase employment performance? Evidence from Korean firm-level dataIf employment is the result of a series of decisions based on a firm’s performance at its growth phase, then an increase in firm employment should be the result of labor demand or optimal choices made in this process. The study aims to investigate the effects of the various forms of public support on employment decisions within a firm’s innovation process. For empirical analysis, an ordered logit model and a hurdle model were employed on a sample of 3,300 Korean firms. While non-financial support had a statistically significant positive effect on employment performance in both models, the results were mixed on other forms of policy support. Overall, the results of the empirical analysis clearly indicate that firms’ behavior can be better understood by approaching employment in a two-step decision-making process such as the hurdle model.
2020	The effects of funding policy change on the scientific performance of government research institutesDespite growing government financial support for scientific development, our understanding of the effect of funding practices on scientific performance is limited. This study investigates the effects of funding policy change on the scientific performance measured by research output of government research institutes (GRIs) in South Korea. This paper analyzes the balanced panel data to examine performance at Korean GRIs during 90's. Our findings indicate that the introduction of a new funding policy improved the journal impact factors of papers.
2020	The Future of Financial Activism in Taiwan? The Utility of a Mindset-centred Analysis of Developmental States and Their EvolutionSince the end of WWII, the so-called developmental states of East Asia have become famous for their ‘financial activism’: their efforts to link the financial and productive sectors of their economies in ways that advance national development objectives. However it is now widely acknowledged that the twin pressures of global financial integration and financialisation have transformed the policymaking landscape and complicated the pursuit of financial activism. So what do these developments mean for the capacities of East Asian states to pursue developmental ambitions? To address this question, I adopt a novel, mindset-centred analytical framework for the study of developmental state evolution and apply it for the first time to the case of Taiwan. My analysis reveals that the evolutionary trajectory of Taiwan’s developmental state has not been linear; since the early 2000s, the state’s commitment to and capacities for financial activism have waxed and waned. Moreover, two factors emerge as particularly significant in this waxing and waning: social legitimacy and political leadership. This paper demonstrates the analytical utility of a mindset-centred analysis when it comes to investigating the dynamics of developmental state evolution, and why some national variants appear more durable than others at different moments in history.
2020	Legitimate Social Purpose and South Korea’s Support for Entrepreneurial Finance Since the Asian Financial CrisisThere has been a marked rise in the breadth and depth of the South Korean state’s support of entrepreneurial finance since the Asian Financial Crisis. This article provides novel conceptual and empirically-grounded understanding of the phenomenon by answering two interconnected research questions: (1) does the government’s financial support of high-technology entrepreneurship in the Creative Economy Action Plan constitute continuity or change in the Korean state’s encouraging of entrepreneurial finance? and (2) what is motivating these efforts? Making use of interview data and policy document analysis, we argue that Creative Economy efforts represent continuity of entrepreneurial finance support, especially since the Asian Financial Crisis. In answering the second question, we argue that legitimate social purpose has propelled Post-Asian financial crisis South Korean policy-makers to strive to diversify the sources of economic activity and job creation away from chaebols while simultaneously embedding the chaebol in the growing entrepreneurial ecosystem. The legitimate social purposes have input legitimacy via fit with employment and diversification aims and output legitimacy gleaned from the perceived positive performance of the entrepreneurial ecosystem.
2020	Intellectual property rights and Korean economic development: the roles of patents, utility models and trademarksThis analysis of trends in the number of filings for patents, utility models and trademarks in Korea from 1962 to 2009 identifies a close relationship between the evolution of the mix of these three types of intellectual property rights and the development pathway of the Korean economy, characterized by the successive leading roles of low-technology domestic market-oriented consumer goods industries, assimilation of advanced technologies through imitation, and the development of research- and innovation-intensive, high-technology export-oriented industries. The research provides empirical support for Schumpeterian analyses of technological catch-up starting from production and passing through imitation to innovation, and highlights the role not just of patents but also of other types of intellectual property rights in explaining economic and technological development.
2020	The iron Silk Road: how important is it?Container transport by railway between Europe and China is a flagship project of China’s Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Trade, economic and geopolitical aspects of the BRI have been widely analysed, but data on real traffic flows are scarce. A variety of data sources are examined to identify the structure and evolution of cargo volumes along the Eurasian Land Bridge in the light not just of the development of new railway freight services between Chinese cities and Europe but also of trade between Japan and South Korea and European countries. The roles of subsidies and new infrastructure investments in shaping past, present and futures trends are also examined.
2020	Assessment of thetrade integrationpattern between the russian federation and east/southeast asianeconomies using thepanelgravity frameworkThis study is the first attempt to investigate the patterns of imports and exports between the Russian Federation and East/Southeast Asian economies, namely, the People’s Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; Macau, China; Japan; the Republic of Korea; Mongolia; Cambodia; Lao People’s Democratic Republic; Brunei; Indonesia; Malaysia; Myanmar; the Philippines; Singapore; Thailand; and Vietnam. To this end, a panel gravity trade model with series from 2001 to 2017 is provided to estimate the gravity variables in our models. The results reveal that GDP and income are more important in the export pattern from the Russian Federation to the East Asian region, meaning that the economic size and the income of the population in East Asian economies are more important in this pattern than other variables. Moreover, Russia’s export pattern with the East Asian region follows the Heckscher?Ohlin hypothesis, while Russia’s import pattern with this region is in line with the Linder hypothesis.
2020	Study of the regional accessibility calculation by income class based on utility-based accessibilityWith the Republic of Korea facing many challenges in urban housing development, the Korean government has implemented various public housing policies to stabilise the residential life of low-income households. While the government has established different housing policies for each household income class, there is a lack of research on rational accessibility models that consider the characteristics of each income class. Therefore, this study constructed an accessibility calculation model that reflects the transportation characteristics of various household income classes and used it to calculate the accessibility of each area and the household location of each income class. The results demonstrated limited difference in accessibility between income classes in Seoul; however, in Incheon and Gyeonggi Province, high-income accessibility was lower than low-income accessibility. It was also confirmed that the low-income households were more likely to be located in areas of low accessibility, while middle and high-income households were more likely to be located in areas of high accessibility. The main contributions of this study are as follows. First, it systematically derives the traffic characteristics by income class and uses these to calculate accessibility. Second, it presents a more reasonable model for calculating accessibility than the nominal model used in government policy decisions. Finally, it evaluates household location by income class based on the accessibility calculated in this study.
2020	Price-Setting Behavior of Korean Firms<sup>†</sup>This paper investigates a pattern of price revision by firms in Korea and sheds light on the cause of price stickiness by providing reliable statistical estimates for calibration of the parameters of the widely-used macro-models. Based on firm-level survey data and using a probit model, we identify the firm characteristics or market conditions that discourage firms from carrying out state-dependent price adjustment. We also estimate the factors driving firms to engage in state-dependent adjustment rather than wait until the next scheduled revision under three different shocks: demand, general cost and exchange rate shocks. We find a few interesting features, as follows. First, price revision by Korean firms tends to be time-dependent rather than state-dependent, with a sizable dispersion across sectors and firm sizes. Second, the pattern of price revision in Korea is not significantly different from that in selected advanced economies. Third, the reason why firms favor time-dependent price adjustments appears to be endogenous, accounted for by a number of market institution variables. Fourth, in response to shocks, Korean firms tend to wait until the next periodically scheduled revision rather than make a state-dependent price adjustment, unless marginal costs are affected significantly by the shock, and state-dependent revisions are often significantly delayed when they do occur.
2020	Intranational Consumption Risk Sharing in South Korea: 2000?2016This paper examines consumption risk sharing among 16 regions in South Korea over the 2000?2016 period. The empirical results show that 91.8 percent of shocks to gross regional domestic product are smoothed in South Korea. Capital markets, the tax-transfer system and credit markets absorb 29.9, 28.9 and 33.0 percent of shocks to gross regional domestic product, respectively. Most notably, South Korea relies more on credit markets for risk sharing than capital markets, an opposite pattern to advanced countries like the USA, Canada and Australia. Furthermore, the patterns of consumption risk sharing are different before and after the 2007?2008 global financial crisis, and differences in regional industrial structure and local development can influence these patterns. This paper attempts to infer the connection between these findings and both the rapid economic growth of South Korea and the Asian and global financial crises.
2020	Macro and non-macro determinants of Korean tourism stock performance: A quantile regression approachThe study aims to investigate a close relation between macro and non-macro variables on stock performance of tourism companies in Korea. The sample used in this study includes monthly data from January 2001 to December 2018. The stock price index of the tourism companies as a dependent variable are obtained from Sejoong, HanaTour, and RedcapTour as three leading Korean tourism companies that have been listed on the Korea Stock Exchange. This study assesses the tourism stock performance using the quantile regression approach. This study also investigates whether global crisis events as the Iraq War and the global financial crisis as non-macro variables have a significant effect on the stock performance of tourism companies in Korea. The results show that the oil prices, exchange rate and industrial production have negative coefficients on stock prices of tourism companies, while the effects of tourist expenditure and consumer price index are positive and significant. We estimate the result of quantile regression that non-macro determinants have statistically a significant and negative effect on tourism stock performance because the global crisis could threaten traveler's safety and economy. Overall, empirical results suggest that the effects of macro and non-macro variables are statistically asymmetric and highly related to tourism stock performance.
2020	Technology Diffusion: Any Further Evidence for Computer Industry?This paper explores the technology diffusion specifically in computer industry for a panel of 18 countries between the period 1999 and 2011. Strong evidence is found for the existence of diffusion of computer technology through bilateral capital good flows. This study shows that knowledge dissemination arises as an important determinant of output in computer sector. Still, domestic research and development efforts of countries are found to be the leading contributing factors in all model specifications. Besides, among two subgroups, in diffusion of computer technology,?it is observed that USA contributes more to the?knowledge?dissemination in the related industry relative to three Asian countries?i.e., Chinese Taipei, Korea and Singapore.
2020	A provincial view of consumption risk sharing in Korea:Asset classes as shock absorbersUsing a unique data set on provincial net factor income flows disaggregated across the three asset classes of debt, equity and Foreign Direct Investment reinvested earnings in Korea, we investigated how these asset channels impacted consumption risk sharing during the Global Financial Crisis and the European sovereign debt crisis. Adopting spatial panel methods, this study found in the main that net factor flows of debt, equity and Foreign Direct Investment retained earnings have all contributed favourably to consumption risk sharing during these episodes, with Foreign Direct Investment retained earnings robust in its positive contribution in buffering shocks to consumption. These results suggest that one of the alleged benefits of financial integration in terms of providing the insurance needed to cushion the economy against adverse shocks is tangible and real at least in the context of Korea. We also obtain evidence that apart from asset channels, the combination of the government's social transfer payments and a certain measure of labour mobility help to contribute in mitigating shocks to consumption.
2020	Demographic change, human capital, and economic growth in KoreaWe construct a measure of human capital using micro datasets on labor composition of age, gender, education, and wage rate and analyze its role in economic growth for the Korean economy. Over the past three decades, human capital has grown steadily at about 1% per year, contrasting to a continuously declining trend of total work-hours. This growth has been driven by the rise of better-educated baby-boom cohorts. A growth accounting exercise shows that human capital contributes signi?cantly to economic growth; it accounted for 0.5% points of annual GDP growth over the period. Human capital is projected to remain a major growth factor over the next two decades as the increase in educational attainment continues. Increased employment rate of elderly or female workers reduces the aggregate human capital growth while increasing the available labor. Polices to improve human capital of female or elderly workers help to increase aggregate human capital growth.
2020	Foreign output shock in small open economies: A welfare evaluation of monetary policy regimesWe examine the impact of negative foreign output shocks, which entail negative demand side effects by lowering exports and positive supply side effects by lowering oil prices, on the welfare of non-oil producing, small open economies under five exchange rate and monetary policy regimes. We use a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium model with parameter values calibrated for Hong Kong, Israel, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. We find that welfare levels among the five policy regimes depend on the economy's share of oil imports in world oil consumption. Hong Kong, Singapore and Israel, which have smaller shares, maximize welfare under the Taylor rule, which targets both CPI inflation and real output. South Korea, with higher shares, and Taiwan, with more rigid prices, maximize welfare under real output targeting. CPI inflation targeting, nominal output growth targeting and fixed exchange rate regimes generate lower welfare. However, optimal monetary policy, which generates the highest welfare, gives greater weight on real output than CPI inflation.
2020	Location matters: Impact of geographical proximity to financial centers on corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in emerging economiesThis study investigates the impact of location on corporate social responsibility (CSR) disclosure in the context of emerging economies. We test our hypotheses using a sample of firms from nine emerging markets, including Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, Russia and?Turkey, over the period 2010?2015. We find strong and robust evidence indicating that firms located closer to financial centers exhibit more CSR disclosure as compared to their remote counterparts. Moreover, this effect is more pronounced for family owned and cross-listed firms. Lastly, the negative effect of distance on CSR disclosure is stronger in countries with higher income inequality. These results are robust to alternative estimation methods, reduced sample, and alternative proxy for our variable, location.
2020	Do non-intermediation services tell us more in the finance?growth nexus?: causality evidence from eight OECD countriesThis paper provides new evidence on a traditional finance?growth nexus through dividing financial services into financial intermediation and non-intermediation services and examining their relationships with economic growth. Applying time-series cointegration techniques and Granger causality tests for eight Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries, reveals several results. First, there is a long-run equilibrium relationship among economic growth, intermediation activities, and non-intermediation activities in Austria, France, and Korea. Second, non-intermediation services impede long-run economic growth in Austria and France, whereas non-intermediation business and financial intermediation services accelerate Korea’s long-term growth. Third, weak exogeneity tests support long-run bi-directional causality and the supply-leading hypothesis in terms of the relationship between financial services and economic growth. Finally, the influences of intermediation and non-intermediation activities on economic growth vary across countries, financial services, and time periods, indicating that countries should adopt different financial services to enhance long- or short-term economic growth. This paper emphasizes the importance of non-intermediation activities in the growth process and in the development of intermediation services.
2020	The mediating effect of empathy on the relationship between cultural intelligence and intercultural adaptation in intercultural service encountersGlobalization has led to a dramatic increase in intercultural service encounters between services providers and customers from diverse cultural backgrounds. This paper explores the causal relationship between service employees' cultural intelligence and adaptive sales behavior in intercultural service encounters, and the mediating effect of cognitive and emotional empathy on this relationship. A quantitative survey methodology was utilized to collect data on 341 salespeople at duty-free shops located on Jeju Island, Korea. Data analysis was conducted using SPSS 18 and Amos 18. The results show that cultural intelligence has a significant impact on cognitive empathy, emotional empathy, and adaptive sales behavior. Cognitive empathy has a positive impact on adaptive sales behavior, whereas the relationship between emotional empathy and adaptive sales behavior is not significant. Additionally, cognitive empathy mediates the relationship of cultural intelligence and adaptive sales behavior. This study has useful managerial implications for employee selection, training, and development in service firms engaged in intercultural service encounters. This study extends prior research on intercultural service encounters by exploring the direct impact of cultural intelligence on intercultural adaptation and the mediating effect of empathy, suggesting the presence of a cognitive mechanism that plays a key role in the impact of cultural intelligence on adaptive sales behavior.
2020	Nothing new under the sun: South Korea’s developmental promises and neoliberal illusionsThe Korean government has strategically promoted the country’s development assistance policies as an alternative to traditional donors’ failed development promises and disguised neo-imperialist policies. This article questions the adequacy of fit between this narrative of exceptionalism and the reality of Korea’s developmental policy prescriptions. Based on field interviews and an analysis of policy recommendation reports produced by the Economic Development Cooperation Fund’s Knowledge Sharing Program, this article shows that Korea is actually ‘kicking away the ladder’ by offering neoliberal prescriptions that are much more in line with global developmental liberalism than its own promotional narrative suggests. Korea is merely aligning itself with the global development status quo. But these prescriptions ease chaebols’ entry in developing markets and contribute to exporting an oppressive chaebol-led transnational labour regime, notably in the Philippines.
2020	Multipliers of expected vs. unexpected fiscal shocks: The case of KoreaWe compare the multipliers of expected and unexpected fiscal shocks. In doing so, we consider that the future path of fiscal policy is anticipated to some degree, and incorporate this characteristic into a news approach. We build a standard small open economy New-Keynesian DSGE model with a fully specified fiscal policy structure, and examine the Korean economy as an example of a small open emerging economy. We find that the present-value multiplier of the government consumption news shock in Korea is smaller than that of a corresponding surprise shock of the same magnitude, apart from the initial couple of years in the case of the output multiplier, and is consistently smaller in the cases of the consumption and investment multipliers. The present-value output multiplier of the government consumption news shock starts from about 0.72 and declines continuously to reach 0.16 after 40 years.
2020	Subordinate financialization and financial subsumption in South KoreaThis paper analyzes the peculiarity of financialization in South Korea after the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Financialization research originally focused on the US experience and primarily understood financialization in the scope of the national state. However, this study analyzes financialization in terms of geographical differentiation and uneven development, and confirms that financialization in South Korea has a subordinate character due to US financial hegemony. This study also focuses on the fact that household debts have exploded in South Korea since the 2000s and recognizes it as a financial subsumption in which the working class is directly expropriated by financial capital.
2020	Measuring neighbouring effects on poverty in regional economiesUsing the concepts of poverty trap and neighbouring effect, this paper explores whether the economies of low-income regions and high-income regions respond differently to national economic fluctuations. It identifies an asymmetric pattern of regional income change in low-income regions of Korea due to a relatively small population size and weak urbanization economies. These low-income regions could increase their income levels by 3.75% if they succeeded in developing a symmetric relation to national economic fluctuations. Spatial proximity between high- and low-income regions can generate greater backwash (negative) effects on the economic growth of low-income regions than spread (positive) effects.
2020	Who are the most effective R&amp;D partners for different types of product innovation? Evidence from South Korean manufacturing firmsR&D cooperation is a key to combining firms’ internal and external technological capabilities. This article empirically investigates the effect of R&D cooperation partners on different types of product innovation. This study considers four types of partners in R&D cooperation: suppliers, customers, competitors, and universities. Three purposes of product innovation are considered: diversification of products, pioneering a new market, and standardization of technology. The main findings are: (1) R&D cooperation with suppliers and competitors has a positive effect on standardization of technology, (2) R&D cooperation with customers has a positive effect on diversification of products and pioneering a new market, and (3) R&D cooperation with universities has a positive effect on pioneering a new market and standardization of technology.
2020	Global productivity and market structure implications of the us-china trade war: A cge modeling approachPurpose ? As the US-China trade war intensifies and lasts long time, there is growing concern about its potential effects on the global economy. In particular, for the countries like Korea that have a large economic dependence on the economy of the two countries, the US-China trade war may have a great repercussion in many ways. The aim of this paper is to investigate the global productivity and market structure implications of the US-China trade war for Korea, as well as for other surrounding countries and regions. Design/methodology ? In this paper, we develop a full multi-country/region multi-sector computable general equilibrium (CGE) model of global trade incorporating heterogeneous workers and firms in individual skill levels and used technologies. We then calibrate the model using a global Social Accounting Matrix (SAM) dataset extracted from the recently released GTAP 10 Database, and assess the potential effects of the US-China trade war on the aggregate real productivity and the market structure for Korea, as well as for other surrounding countries and regions. Findings ? We show that the US-China trade war may largely affect the aggregate productivity in each sector in each country/region, as well as the global market structure through entry and exit of firms, which results finally in considerable changes in the industrial comparative advantage of each country/region. Though the effects are diverse sector by sector, the results show that Korea may also be affected significantly: concerning the real productivity implications, it is shown that the machinery industry may be affected the most negatively; on the other hand, it is shown that the number of exporting firms may decrease the most in the other transports industry. Originality/value ? As the US-China trade war intensifies, many studies have tried to estimate the possible implications, and for this usually the CGE models have largely been used as the standard tool for evaluating the impacts of changes in trade policies. Standard CGE models, however, cannot be used to assess the global productivity and market structure implications due to the symmetric and simplified base assumptions. This paper is the first to analyze and quantify the possible impacts of the US-China trade war on the aggregate productivity and global market structure using a CGE model incorporating endogenous skill-technology assignment of heterogeneous workers and firms.
2020	The impact of input and output tariffs on domestic employment across industries: Evidence from KoreaPurpose ? This paper examines how differently output and input tariffs affect domestic employment across industrial characteristics of comparative advantage such as labor quality and capital intensity. Design/methodology ? The paper focuses on 453 Korean industries from 2007 to 2014 because Korea is a typical example of a natural resource-scarce open economy and experienced the transition of the export pattern from labor intensity to technology intensity during this period. Findings ? The results show that input tariff reduction stimulated total employment, focusing on the early 2010s, while the effects of output tariff reduction were statistically insignificant in general. However, the stimulation effects of output tariff reduction on employment were found in comparative advantage industries with greater labor quality and capital intensity. As for input tariff reduction, its stimulation effects on employment were more prominent in comparative disadvantage industries with lower labor quality and capital intensity. Originality/value ? These results provide significant implications for natural resource-scarce open economies which are experiencing the transition of the export pattern from labor intensity to technology intensity and the unequal distribution of income after trade liberalization: imported intermediate inputs has become increasing important, leading to trade effects on employment and alleviation of income inequality.
2020	Importance of political elements to attract FDI for Asean and Korean economyPurpose ? Recent empirical studies have shown that FDI is expected to be strongly associated with democratic governance, political stability, and sound macroeconomic conditions of the host country. We attempt to take it a step further to see if governments implement a major change in institutional characteristics, will the institutional reform toward better governance have a substantive effect in enhancing FDI inflows. This paper thus aims to analyze the importance of good governance as an important factor in the attractiveness of FDI inflows in ASEAN+3 (Korea, China, Japan) countries. Design/methodology ? To determine the effects of good governance on FDI inflows across ASEAN+3 countries recorded between 1996-2018, the Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) are used to investigate the impact of good governance on FDI inflows. The model has been estimated by using fixed effects to show the robustness of the results. Findings ? Our main findings can be summarized as follows: Political Stability, Rule of Law, and Voice and Accountability have a statistically significant impact on the inflow of FDI in the ASEAN+3 Countries, especially for Korean economy. Moreover, GDP growth continue to exert their positive influence. However, Regulatory Quality, Government Effectiveness and Control of Corruption, though equally important, are insignificant to attract FDI inflows. The key finding is that good governance has a significant impact on inward FDI in the ASEAN+3 countries. Originality/value ? Existing studies focus on the impact of political factors on FDI across countries. This paper instead attempts to investigate which type of good governance is the most important in promoting FDI inflows across ASEAN+3 countries, which is essential for multinationals to consider when choosing a foreign site as a possible FDI destination.
2020	Visualization, economic complexity index, and forecasting of South Korea international trade profile: A time series approachPurpose - The recent growth of South Korean products in the international market is the benchmark for both developed as well as developing countries. According to the development index, the role of international trade is indeed crucial for the development of the national economy. However, the visualization of the international trade profile of the country is the prerequisite of governmental policy decision-makers and guidance for forecasting of foreign trade. Design/methodology - We have utilized data visualization techniques in order to visualize the import & export product space and trade partners of South Korea. Economic Complexity Index (ECI) and Revealed Comparative Advantage (RCA) were used to identify the Korean international trade diversification, whereas the time series approach is used to forecast the economy and foreign trade variables. Findings - Our results show that Chine, U.S, Vietnam, Hong Kong, and Japan are the leading trade partners of Korea. Overall, the ECI of South Korea is growing significantly as compared to China, Hong Kong, and other developed countries of the world. The expected values of total import and export volume of South Korea are approximately US$535.21 and US$ 781.23B, with the balance of trade US$ 254.02B in 2025. It was also observed from our analysis that imports & exports are equally substantial to the GDP of Korea and have a significant correlation with GDP, GDP per capita, and ECI. Originality/value - To maintain the growth rate of international trade and efficient competitor for the trade partners, we have visualized the South Korea trade profile, which provides the information of significant export and import products as well as main trade partners and forecasting.
2020	China’s economic policy uncertainty shocks and South Korea’s exports: A TVP-VAR approach with an SMSS structurePurpose - Since China has been South Korea’s biggest export destination, uncertainty shocks originating from it would influence South Korea’s exports. This paper evaluates the effects of China’s economic policy uncertainty on Korea’s exports to explore the transmission channels. Design/methodology - Incorporating endogeneities and nonlinearities, this study employs a quarterly time-varying parameters vector autoregressive model to investigate the relationships between China’s economic policy uncertainty and Korea’s exports, where the overparameterization due to time-varying specifications is overcome by a novel stochastic model specification search framework. According to previous theoretical studies, this paper assesses two channels, demand shock channel and exchange rate channel, through which foreign uncertainty affects Korea’s exports. This paper identifies the primary drivers of Korea’s aggregate exports and analyzes the rationales for the time-variant impacts of China’s economic policy uncertainty on Korea’s exports to China. Findings - Our empirical results reveal that Korea’s aggregate exports are less responsive to China’s economic policy uncertainty shocks and significantly move together with global demand. In contrast, its bilateral exports to China are highly responsive in a negative and time-variant way. Moreover, Chinese investment is an important channel through which China’s economic policy uncertainty affects Korea’s exports to China after 2010. Further, the time-variant effects of China’s economic policy uncertainty on Korea’s exports to China are related to changes in China’s foreign trade policies, global economic conditions, and China’s degree of economic freedom. Originality/value - Few previous studies touch the effects of external uncertainty shocks on South Korea’s exports. This paper attempts to fill this gap and explicitly investigate the impacts of China’s economic policy uncertainty on Korea’s exports from a time-varying perspective. As Korea is an export-oriented economy, this study provides insights for the Korean government to understand the transmissions of external uncertainty better.
2020	A study on the interrelationship of trade, investment and economic growth in Myanmar: Policy implications from South Korea’s economic growthPurpose - This paper addresses the concepts of FDI-Trade-Growth nexus in Myanmar’s economy and empirically investigates the interrelationships of trade, investment and economic growth to reveal the growth model of Myanmar’s economy. Additionally, this paper also addresses the cooperative strategies between Myanmar and South Korea through a case study related to South Korea’s economic growth. Design/methodology - Our empirical model considers the interrelationship among FDI, trade, growth, labor force and inflation in Myanmar. This study employs ARDL (Autoregressive Distributed Lag) to conduct an analysis of the FDI-Trade-Growth relationships using the time series data from 1970 to 2016 and a conducted case study of South Korea provided for practical implication on cooperative strategies between Myanmar and Korea. Findings - Export equation was chosen through the diagnostic tests. Our main findings can be summarized as follows: Export in Myanmar is positively influenced by labor force, FDI, capital formation and negatively impacted by import and instable inflation rate in the long run. In the short run, GDP and import positively influence export. The Granger causality test proves that Myanmar is an FDI/labor force-led Growth economy, where FDI and labor force are main drivers of export followed by GDP in Myanmar. The case study of South Korea provided that Korea’s tax and credit system for promoting export-led FDI industries and cooperative units for joint ventures between Korea and Myanmar in export-led FDI industries are recommended. Originality/value - No study has yet to be conducted on the interrelationships of macroeconomic factors from the perspectives of FDI-Trade-Growth Nexus in Myanmar under the assumption of labor force and inflation rate as fundamental conditions. The current study also covered a relatively longer period of time series data from 1970 to 2016. This paper also conducts a case study of South Korea’s experience in order to evaluate the findings and provide better policy implications.
2020	Research on the environmental effects and green development path of South Korean foreign tradePurpose - This paper aims to examine the environmental effects of South Korean foreign trade, and the changing relationship between industrial “three wastes” emissions and foreign trade. Design/methodology - Based on time series data of South Korean foreign trade and industrial “three wastes” from 2009 to 2019, a VAR model was used to analyze the long-term internal links and dynamic changes between foreign trade and environmental pollution. Findings - Variance decomposition analysis shows that for the three types of pollutants, self-impact contributes the most to the variance decomposition. It follows that South Korean foreign trade has a certain negative impact on the environment, and this impact has a certain sustainability. Originality/value - This paper contributes to the study on the relationship between foreign trade and environmental pollution. It theoretically proposes a coordinated development path for foreign trade development and green development based on the environmental impact of foreign trade, to provide a reference for the development of collaborative promotion.
2020	What drives the listing effect in acquirer returns? Evidence from the Korean, Chinese, and Taiwanese stock marketsPurpose - This study investigates whether a listing effect exists in cross-border M&As and whether the effect can be attributed to the uncertainty of the GDP growth rate in the target firm’s home country. We apply a joint variable analysis using M&A announcement data from the Korea Exchange (KRX), Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE), and the Taiwan Stock Exchange (TWSE) from 2004 to 2013. We also conduct an event study using the measure of the uncertainty of the GDP growth rate (based on IMF statistics) in 55 target countries. Design/methodology - We measure the abnormal return (AR) using the market-adjusted model. We test the significance of the AR and the cumulative abnormal return (CAR) using a one-sample t-test. We examine the characteristics of the CARs depending on whether the target company is listed by applying a difference analysis using CAR as a test variable. In addition, we set CAR (-5, +5) as a dependent variable to identify the cause of the listing effect, and test both the financial characteristic variables of the acquirer and the collective characteristic variables of the merger as independent variables in the multiple regression analysis. Findings - First, we find the listing effect of cross-border M&As in the KRX, SSE, and TWSE, which represent the capital markets in Korea, China, and Taiwan, respectively. This listing effect persists during the global financial crisis and has a negative effect on the wealth of acquiring shareholders, especially when the target countries are emerging markets. Second, greater uncertainty regarding the target countries’ economic growth in cross-border M&As has a negative effect on the wealth of acquiring firms’ shareholders. Third, our empirical analysis demonstrates that the listing effect is attributable to the fact that firms listed in a target country with greater uncertainty of economic growth are more directly and greatly exposed to uncertain capital markets through stock markets, than are unlisted firms. Originality/value - This study is significant in that it presents a new strategic perspective in the study of cross-border M&As by demonstrating empirically that the listing effect is attributable to the uncertainty regarding the economic development of the target firms’ home countries.
2020	The nationality effect of price discrimination in the container shipping market and its implications for development economics: Treating Hanjin shipping’s collapse as a natural experimentPurpose - International trade leads to the international division of labor, improving the efficiency of the global economic system. Transport costs are a more serious barrier to international trade than customs tariffs. An increase in competition in the transport sector may thus lead to a reduction in transport costs. However, if a carrier’s nationality significantly influences transport costs, simply adding more competing carriers of different nationalities would be ineffective. Therefore, it is necessary to establish national or regional carriers to influence competition and reduce transport costs. This study investigates this “nationality effect” by treating Hanjin Shipping’s collapse as a natural experiment. Design/methodology - The theoretical basis of this study is the 3rd-degree price discrimination in container shipping market. By using the monthly data of container freight rates of Korea, China and Japan, this study shows the so-called Korea Premiums, which are the empirical counterparts of nationality effect in Korea container shipping market. For this empirical investigation, the structural model with state-space form is used and the dummy models are also estimated. In addition, because China has been also affected by the Hanjin’s collapse, the China premiums are considered too. Findings - Compared with Japan’s case, it is shown that there had been the so-called Korea premiums since the collapse of Hanjin Shipping. These results are robust from both the state-space model and dummy models. The time pattern of Korea premiums was consistent with the market evolution, especially the pattern of substitutability in container shipping markets. In addition, this paper shows the magnitude of Korea premiums. Originality/value - The argument of this study that the nationality effect can be interpreted as an extended concept of the home market effect is original, which is expected to evoke future research efforts. Further, the discussion on the shipping industrial policy from both horizontal and vertical aspects will provide the relevant policy makers with solid information, especially for the policy coordination in a global scale.
2020	COVID-19 Shock and Global Value Chains: Is There a Substitute for China?COVID-19 has had a worldwide impact. The consensus is that the sudden pause of global production and the shrinking international trade will contract the global economy. This study explores the short-term impact of the COVID-19 shock on global value chains (GVC), especially considering China’s production-capacity damage. Findings suggest that downstream countries and sectors suffer more from China’s production disruption than upstream ones. The Most impacted countries are the United States, South Korea, Japan, and Germany; while the most-affected sectors include electronic and optical equipment, textiles, machinery, manufacturing, and wholesale trade. It is found that China is too important in GVC to be substituted for in the current world economy.
2020	Foreign acquisition and R&amp;D activities: evidence from a small open economyThis paper examines the effect of the foreign acquisition on domestic firms’ R&D activities using a firm-level dataset. We exploit a rich dataset of South Korea, which is a representative small open economy. We find that foreign takeover leads to increased R&D expenditures, which are more outsourced. The effect stood out after the global financial crisis, for listed companies and companies that rely on trade.
2020	NOT PATENTS but TRADEMARKS-BASED PATH of TECHNOLOGICAL DEVELOPMENT of LATECOMERS: EVIDENCE from the KOREAN DATAIn contrast to the vast literature on verifying the importance of formal R&D activities measured as patent registrations, this paper explores the possibility of not patent but trademark-driven path of latecomer firms' technological development. The study is motivated by the evidence from the Korean data showing the existence of two groups of sectors where firms in the one group tended to file more trademarks than patents. We find that in the first group of sectors, like food, apparel, and pharmaceuticals, trademarks have been the most applied form of the IPRs with a much large number of their registrations than patents from the initial stage of development until recently, whereas in the second group of sectors, like electronics and automobiles, the main IPR form has been patents. Regressions on the determinants about this bifurcation find that the trademark groups are those sectors involving more tacit knowledge and/or domestic market orientation associated with slow progress in technological capabilities. The results are important because it implies the existence of alternative path of economic development by the latecomer firms in different sectors, beside the patent-driven path which is already verified in Kim et al. (2012). Appropriate intellectual property protection and economic growth in countries at different levels of development. Research Policy, 41(2), 358-375, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2011.09.003.
2020	A New Normal or Business-as-Usual? Lessons for COVID-19 from Financial Crises in East and Southeast AsiaCrises and dislocations home in on social, economic, and political weaknesses that are often sidestepped or pushed to the backburner in the interests of master plans of growth or development. Recovery from crises, then, provides the opportunity to address these underlying issues that preceded and, likely, contributed to the crises or dislocation; meanwhile, a return to the previous normalcy following such crises generally means exacerbation of these weaknesses that erode and threaten to fracture social, economic and political foundations. This paper documents social and economic policies across two financial crises, the Asian Financial Crisis and the Global Financial Crisis, for South Korea, the Philippines, and Indonesia, to reveal the problems from growth-centric recovery focus on economic fragilities, social cohesion, and political stability. Further, using evidence from the ground and survey data, we also show how recovery to a new normal with a reprioritization of social policies invigorates the social, political, and economic foundations. We round off the study with an examination of social policy changes under COVID-19 to assess how the efforts track against a recovery to business-as-usual economic normalcy or a new normal that reprioritizes social policies and the economy. The scope of change is high; as we show in the paper, it is also necessary.
2020	Korea's patterns of tradeImbs and Pauwels (2020) introduce a measure of openness based on indirect trade. This paper illustrates the differences in the Korean patterns of trade when openness is measured using conventional measures based on direct trade, and when it is measured using this measure of indirect trade, labeled Export Intensity (EI). According to EI, the Republic of Korea (Korea) has been following an upward trend in openness since 2000 and even after 2010. This stands in contrast with most other large trading countries, including China and Germany. We show this is a reflection of Korea's integration with a few partner economies, most notably China. Vertical integration is considerable between Korea and China, in manufacturing and in services alike. The extent of this integration would be invisible on the basis of conventional measures of openness.
2020	Global business and financial cycles: A tale of two capital account regimesUsing a new equity price-based measure of the global financial cycle, this paper evaluates the relative importance of global financial shocks for quarterly equity returns and output growths in a large sample of advanced and emerging economies, as well as in South Korea and China-two countries on different sides of the trilemma triangle of international finance. We document that global financial shocks in both China and South Korea explain a substantial share of equity return variability (20 and 50 percent of total variance, respectively), but a much smaller portion of real output fluctuations (less than 10 percent in Korea and negligible in the case of China). We also find that the combination of a closer capital account and a more rigid exchange rate regime, as in China, is associated with some costs in terms of diversification opportunities quantified by very large exposures to domestic financial and real shocks, dwarfing the contribution of any other shock in the model. More surprisingly, the combination of a relatively open capital account and a flexible exchange rate, as in South Korea, not only is associated with a higher exposure to the global financial cycle than in China but also with a significant incidence of domestic financial shocks on output fluctuations.
2020	Business cycles and limited participation in financial markets: The case of koreaThis paper investigates sources of business cycles in Korea to shed some lights on the role of limited participation in financial market along the line of Christiano and Eichenbaum (1992) and King and Watson (1996). For this purpose, the paper sets up a small open economy model with two agents subject to limited participation in financial markets. Applying Watson (1993)’s measure of fit to evaluate the role of limited participation over Korean business cycles, it finds that the household’s limited participation has played an important role in the business cycle in Korea after the Asian financial crisis.
2020	Effects of environmental regulations on the total factor productivity in Korea from 2006?2014This study investigates the effects of environmental stringency on the productivity in Korea. Previous studies have focused on the effects of environmental regulations on productivity at either the firm or industry level. In this study, the effects that the environmental protection expenditure have on the total factor productivity  are analysed using a firm- and industry-level panel dataset for 2006?2014. A dynamic panel data model was used for the industry-level analysis of the panel data from 2006?2014, and a multilevel linear model was used for the firm-level analysis of the data from 2010?2014. The results indicate that the environmental protection expenditure has a negative correlation with the TFP, including a lag variable of environmental research and development. The multilevel linear model analysis shows similar results for the environmental protection expenditure and environmental research and development. These findings suggest that the Porter hypothesis, which suggests that well-designed environmental policies may enhance productivity, is not applicable for Korea.
2020	The prospects for settlement of north korean nuclear problem in view of the presidential elections in the USAThe article considers the key issues related to the North Korea’s nuclear problem in the context of the present policies of the United States towards the DPRK, as well as new priorities and evolving approaches of the Republican Administration regarding the tasks of providing peaceful resolution on the Korean Peninsula. It has been revealed that in recent years, the policy of President D. Trump in that area has been resolutely reshaped away from attachment to “military option” towards the search for negotiated solutions of the nuclear issue. In the paper, special attention is paid to the review of results achieved in the course of the dialogue as well as to assessment of the reasons which had led to its failure. It has been shown that the course of the incumbent Administration regarding North Korea is widely criticized in the United States for its inability to produce tangible outcomes. According to many estimates, the results of the American-North Korean summit meetings have revealed the only fact that presently, the DPRK has no intent to abandon either its nuclear weapons or delivery means. Moreover, Pyongyang has taken the occasion of the talks to augment its nuclear arsenal and upgrade the ballistic missiles capabilities. However, the ongoing discussion in the United States on the nuclear issue has highlighted that political opponents of President Trump have not yet succeeded in proposing any reasonable alternative to his policy. It can be assumed that the meaningful comprehension of the current situation as well as practical policy-making process will restart only after the presidential elections in the United States. In this vein, the author suggests his estimates of the prospects for progress in the settlement of the Korean crisis, which are provided together with the consideration of potential scenarios for future developments. It is argued that the most preferable and rational option should be the building of international cooperation and launching multilateral arrangement for a dialogue with the DPRK to resolve the nuclear issue.
2020	North-east asia in the context of China’s global interests and policy “in a new era”The article analyzes the Chinese politics and bilateral relations with Northeast Asian countries in the second decade of the 21st century through the prism of theoretical innovations proposed by the PRC leadership in the field of international diplomacy, economic development and global governance as well as its initiatives in the sphere of “cooperative interaction” and ensuring regional security. The author shows that China’s acquisition of the global power status and the active promotion of its own agenda in international affairs had a weak effect on its position in NEA and relations with countries of the region, including Russia. Although Beijing incorporates all the states of the region into its “global partnership network”, it is not some theoretical models and idealistic concepts, but specific economic interests, political calculations, cultural factors and historical baggage that play a key role in China’s relations with Japan, North and South Korea, Mongolia or Russia. Chinese diplomacy takes into account the extremely complicated balance of power and configuration of relations in the region, and therefore, does not make much effort to promote new formats of integration and security building in the region, considering it sufficient to demonstrate good intentions of the PRC and its behavior as a “responsible state”. The north-eastern part of Eurasia, including the Pacific part of Russia, is modestly represented in Xi Jinping’s “One Belt, One Road” initiative, it is not the object of its financial expansion, and therefore, the nature and scale of China’s economic interaction with NEA countries have not changed much over the past decade.
2020	Disaster cooperation strategies between North and South Korea based on Sendai frameworkTThe cooperation on disaster prevention between the two Koreas has been mostly focused on cooperation at the recovery stage, such as emergency relief supplies and equipment support. This study aims to articulate future practical development plans by analyzing disaster cooperation between North and South Korea in accordance with the changing paradigm of international disaster cooperation. Considering the specificity of inter-Korean cooperation, the Framework for Inter-Korean Disaster Prevention Cooperation was established centering on the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction. The framework consists of understanding and sharing disaster risks, building back better, strengthening community resilience, and supporting regional disaster action plans for continuous action. Inter-Korean disaster prevention cooperation requires sharing information about North Korean disasters. It is necessary to accurately identify and support social vulnerability to North Korean disasters. Above all, it is supporting the development of disaster action plans from a humanitarian perspective needs. A medium-to-long term resilience reinforcement plan that North Korea can resolve on its own is also needed. Since North Korea is also deeply interested in international disaster cooperation, it should be based on the direction of the Sendai Framework. Considering the uniqueness of inter-Korean cooperation, a path for North Korea to actively participate in international disaster cooperation should be established.
2020	The impact of logistics infrastructure development in China on the promotion of Sino-Korea trade: The case of inland port under the belt and road initiativePurpose - This study investigates the impact of inland port development in China on the promotion of bilateral trade flows between China and South Korea. Design/methodology - The probable association between the establishment of inland ports and Sino- Korea trade was estimated using gravity models. In this regards, two sets of data were collected. The first dataset consists of the baseline variables of a gravity model, while the second one includes variables of logistics infrastructure development. The indicators of logistics infrastructure development include inland ports, the amount of government expenditure on transport infrastructure, the lengths of roads and railways, the number of trucks and the number of logistics industry workforce. Findings - The results show that inland port development has a positive impact on facilitating bilateral trade between China and South Korea. However, the positive association holds only for Chinese regions with a large trade volume and a proximity to seaports. In other regions, the impact of inland ports is not statistically significant. Originality/value - To the best knowledge of the authors, this study is the first attempt to explore the economic impact of inland ports in China. In addition, the findings in this paper provide both policy and managerial implications for the future development of inland ports, such as the strategic location of inland ports and integrated intermodal operations.
2020	The party and the gun: African liberation, Asian comrades and socialist political technologiesIn many African states, decolonisation brought neither prosperity nor meaningful independence. The discontent with weak political and economic sovereignty led African revolutionaries to seek support from Asia, a proximity that continues to endure long after 1989. This paper focuses on decades of diverse forms of political interaction?ideational inspiration, policy emulation, party-to-party cooperation?between several Asian states, such as China, Korea and Viet Nam, and African (neo)liberation movements turned governments, from Eritrea and Ethiopia to Mozambique and Tanzania. Socialist imaginaries, institutions and, above all, technologies of rule have been central in these processes and far more prominent ??substantively and rhetorically?than any alternative ideology: the development of the vanguard Party, operated through democratic centralism; the popular defence force, an army loyal to the Party; and state capitalism to control the economy’s commanding heights. These enduring ties between African and Asian comrade state-builders, and the quest for heterodox political modernities they represent, have been largely overlooked, especially in the post-Cold War period. They not only shed light on alternative political geographies and transnational histories of Africa and Asia, but also alert us to present-day ideological projects that differ starkly from Western liberal hegemony and its emphasis on Washington Consensus-style economics and representational democracy.
2020	Inclusive partners? Internationalising South Korea’s chaebol through corporate social responsibility-linked development cooperationIn recent years, non-traditional or ‘emerging’ donors such as South Korea have organised their development cooperation models in a manner that seeks to complement the capacities of the private sector by extending the overseas activities of domestic businesses. To better understand this process, this article examines the role of South Korea’s large, family-led conglomerates (chaebol) in its growing international development sector. In particular, we focus on how the concept of corporate social responsibility (CSR) has been used to link the role of its large, and frequently scandal-ridden, private companies to international development, and, by extension, how it has helped to internationalise state?business networks long associated with the Korean developmental state. We examine two strategies through which this has been carried out. The first is by extending the logic of creating shared value (CSV, a derivative of CSR) to aid and infrastructure projects in which chaebol and other state-linked businesses have participated. The second is by directly embedding CSR-based aid initiatives in the value chains of the specific chaebol themselves.
2020	Overcoming the division bloc and its limitations: a Gramscian approach to South Korean social formationColonialism affects post-colonial social formations in a variety of ways. Japanese colonial rule had a far-reaching influence on South Korean post-colonial social formation. Most legacies of colonialism diminished as time went by, but one legacy of colonialism continued or even increased its effects on the South Korean political economy from the 1960s?namely, the division of Korea. This article provides an alternative Gramscian approach to the analysis of the social formation of South Korea, with due consideration of the division of the peninsula. For that purpose, it introduces the concept of a division bloc, adapting Gramsci’s concept of a historical bloc to develop an analysis of a social formation that is unique to South Korea. Then, I explicate the two events that have been most damaging for the division bloc?the 1997 economic crisis and the 1998?2007 inter-Korean reconciliation?describing them as an organic crisis and a hegemonic project, respectively. Following this, I present reasons why the counter-hegemonic efforts of liberal nationalists to overcome the division bloc failed.
2020	The productivity effects of infrastructure: A cross-country comparison using manufacturing industry panelsStudies on the productivity effects of infrastructure have produced ambiguous results because of potential inter-sectoral dependencies, non-stationarity and endogeneity issues in estimation. Employing estimators that address these problems, we test the effects of a composite infrastructure index on a panel of industries for four major-Asian economies. Our results indicate positive and sizable long-run effects of infrastructure on productivity for India and China, but not for Japan and S. Korea.
2020	Socio-cultural researches of international migration and demographyOn October 2-6, 2019, Kyoto Sangyo University (Japan) hosted the 2nd World Congress “East-West: Intersection of Cultures”. The congress was attended by more than 200 scientists from 36 countries, including: Russia, Japan, USA, Canada, Georgia, Armenia, Belgium, Vietnam, Italy, Poland, Slovakia, Finland, China, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, South Korea. They discussed issues related to international migration and demography, education and cross-cultural communication and the problems of adaptation of migrants. The editors publish material on section “Socio-cultural studies of international migration and demography, which discussed new trends and characteristics of demographicprocesses, including migration processes in countries around the world. Economic growth leads up to an increase in life expectancy, which is the reason for the demographic aging of the population of developed countries. Does this trend threaten further socio-economic development? Migration growth in developed countries aggravates the integration of new citizens, including cross-cultural interaction. What is the positive experience of these problems?.
2020	Theory and empirics of the institutional evolution of economic development: An application to Korean economyThis study empirically applies the theory of institutional requirement for economic development to explain Korea's modern history of economic development. The study theoretically derives the argument that the economic discrimination (ED) policy regime "rewarding high performance relative to low performance" is the necessary condition for economic development, whereas the economic egalitarianism (EE) policy regime "disregarding the differences of performances" is the sufficient condition for economic stagnation. The paper then describes some details of the institutional evolution of Korean economy for the last 60 years and presents three testable hypotheses for Korea's development history. 1) Institution-led growth hypothesis: The rise and fall of Korea's economic growth was respectively led by the ED and EE policy regimes. 2) Corporate-led growth hypothesis: The rise and fall of Korea's economic growth was led by the rise and fall of the corporate sector growth instigated by the ED and EE policy regimes, respectively; and 3) Political cycle of economic growth: The rise and fall of Korea's economic growth was led by the political cycle of economization of politics and politicization of economy, respectively. These hypotheses are empirically verified by utilizing a new model of corporate production function. Policy implication is that Korea's current economic difficulties can only be cured by reversing the current anti-corporate EE policy regime to the corporate-friendly ED policy regime.
2020	Social and economic transformation in Tanzania and South Korea: Ujamaa and Saemaul Undong in the 1970s ComparedJulius Nyerere and Park Chung-hee carried out ambitious and important social and economic reforms for rural development in the 1970s in Tanzania and South Korea, respectively. The reforms not only affected the livelihood of rural people but also had longreaching impact on the entire nations. Despite the visionary and generally benevolent rulers' policy initiatives, the economic results of the rural development programs in the two countries cannot be more different. This paper contrasts and explores the importance of the nature of the transformation strategy and processes, as brought about by differences in leadership as well as in political philosophies and developmental goals, as a possible explanation for the drastically different economic outcomes of Tanzania's Ujamaa and South Korea's Saemaul Undong.
2020	Duration of parental leave and women's employmentThe study examines the consequence of the extension of maximum job-protected and paid leave from 12 months to 15 months in Korea. The analysis, based on regression discontinuity design, finds the reform led to more female employees taking leave and for longer periods. The take-up of leave increased by five percentage points and the duration by 40 days. The probability of returning to work within three years after birth increased by two percentage points after the policy change, but the effect diminished by four years after birth. No significant impact on their return to their pre-birth job is found. This finding implies that a relatively small change in parental leave legislation may promote women's employment in the short-term. Moreover, the extension of the maximum duration of job-protected leave is not enough to support women's career development in the long-term. Finally, the shortterm impact on women's employment was the largest for those with the lowest wage and in the smallest firms. Although the evidence is not definitive, the heterogeneous effect needs to be paid further attention in evaluating parental leave policy.
2020	Green trade patterns and the transboundary transmission of greenhouse gas emissionsBy classifying international green and non-green trade for the period 1980?2015, this study investigates trends in green trade, exports, and imports as shares of total trade, exports, and imports, respectively. The general findings are that these green shares increased during the review period, albeit with the green shares for member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development showing different trends than those of nonmember countries. Further, three countries at different stages of economic development?the People’s Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, and the United States?each exhibit different trends in green trade over time. In particular, the green trade, export, and import shares of the People’s Republic of China decreased over time, which is in contrast to the increases observed for the Republic of Korea and the United States during the review period. The findings suggest that efforts to persuade developing countries to accept international agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions should also consider the transboundary transmission of these emissions and their health effects.
2020	The peace process on the Korean peninsula: Problems and prospectsThe article considers a wide range of issues related to the tasks of providing permanent and durable peace on the Korean Peninsula. The problem of concluding a Peace Treaty instead of the Armistice Agreement is a cornerstone in building a new non-confrontational framework capable to provide the security of all parties involved as well as in establishing the conditions for equal cooperation between them. The authors argue that the realization of those tasks was possible due to positive developments in the American?North Korean and inter-Korean relations. In accordance with the Panmunjom Declaration signed by the leaders of the DPRK and the ROK, the two sides agreed to cooperate in bringing an end to the state of armistice and establishing a firm peace regime through multilateral meetings involving both sides as well as the United States and China. Another important step was the Comprehensive Military Agreement signed between two Koreas, which envisaged promoting arms control and introducing confidence-building measures. However, despite a certain warming of the climate on the Korean Peninsula, the transition from political declarations to practical steps for benefit of a comprehensive peaceful resolution has proven to be very difficult because of existing deep contradictions between the parties involved. The authors’ view is that as of now, the parties concerned have failed to launch any ad hoc multilateral arrangement aimed at outlining the contours of the future peace-building order on the Korean Peninsula. The reason is that the failure to settle the long-standing nuclear issue has obstructed progress on all the tracks, including the peace process there. In this vein, special attention is devoted to Russia’s approach and perspective. The authors illuminate that participation in the process of peaceful settlement of the key issues on the Korean agenda meets the vital interests of Russia in the context of tasks related to the establishment of the security and cooperation arrangement in the region of North East Asia.
2020	Sectoral heterogeneity in nominal rigidities in Korea: Implications for monetary policyThis paper documents how the frequency of price changes differs across sectors in Korea and what implications such heterogeneity may have for monetary policy. Under heterogeneity, i) monetary policy has larger and more persistent real effects, ii) stabilizing an alternative (optimal) price index that places disproportionately larger weights on “sticky” sectors rather than the consumer price index is welfare improving, iii) the central bank, targeting such an alternative index, should move nominal interest rates slowly, which may justify “gradualism” in monetary policy, and iv) the condition for equilibrium determinacy is different. The results suggest that the monetary authority must consider how firms’ pricing behaviors differ across sectors in the design of monetary policy.
2020	The bright and dark side of pre-existing social ties and relational orientation in research collaborations in South KoreaInformal networks between individuals are widely seen as important in East Asian business systems. However, while the performance implications of guanxi in China have been extensively studied, much less is known on how informal networks may influence business outcomes in other East Asian countries. We examine informal networks in inter-organizational research collaborations in South Korea by studying the role of pre-existing social ties and relational orientation in new product development (NPD) collaborations and university-industry research (UIR) collaborations. We conduct an interview-based, in-depth case analysis of five NPD collaborations and five UIR collaborations. Pre-existing social ties and relational orientation are prevalent in both types of research collaborations. However, they have different consequences for collaboration outcomes. Pre-existing social ties strongly vary in their types and strength, and negatively affect collaboration outcomes unless they result in the selection of competent and motivated partners. Relational orientation manifests itself in a task-related and social exchange between collaboration partners, which contributes to outcomes such as knowledge acquisition and business performance. Korean collaboration managers should rely only on pre-existing social ties that are well-aligned with task-related requirements when initiating and conducting research collaborations. However, the creation of strong relationships between collaboration team members of partnering organizations should be encouraged.
2020	The smart city evolution in South Korea: Findings from big data analyticsWith the recent global urban issues such as climate change, urbanization, and energy problems, the smart city was proposed as one of the solutions in urban planning. This study introduces the smart city initiatives of South Korea by examining the recent history of smart city policies and their limitations. This case study reflects the experience of one of the countries which thrived to building smart cities as their national key industries to drive economic growth. It also analyzes the trends of the smart city using big data analysis techniques. Although there are obstacles such as economic recession, failing to differentiate from the U-city, low service level than expected smart functionality, We could recognize the current status of the smart city policies in South Korea such as 1) Korean smart city development projects are actively implemented, 2) public consensus suggests that applying advanced technology and the active role of government need, 3) a comprehensive and strategic approach with the integration and application of advanced technologies is required as well, 4) investment by both private and public sectors need to deliver social improvements. This study suggests future direction of smart city polity in South Korea in the conclusion.
2020	Variance risk premium in a small open economy with volatile capital flows: The case of KoreaThis paper extends the research on the variance risk premium by considering a small open economy with volatile capital flows?the Korean economy. The empirical analysis in this paper finds that as in the US, the variance risk premium in Korea has a predictive power for the Korea Composite Stock Price Index (KOSPI) 200 stock returns over one-month and three-month horizons, indicating that it reflects the level of risk aversion in the Korean economy. The short-term forecasting ability of the variance risk premium is comparable to that of other popular predictor variables, such as the dividend yield and output gap. Moreover, a factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) analysis shows that the global liquidity sector is more important than the domestic macroeconomic sector in determining the variance risk premium. An increase in global liquidity significantly reduces both the variance risk premium and economic uncertainty.
2020	Challenging the East Asian Development Model: Evidence from South KoreaThe resurgence of the East Asian development model has seen alarming trends of populist-authoritarianism as well as democratic reversals. Yet, the core argument?strong, unconstrained governments successfully motivate or compel compliance?is rarely assessed. This paper makes that systematic assessment with historical data and survey findings from South Korea, the prototypical East Asian model. Two findings are consequential: first, strong, unconstrained governments led to higher-than-normal disinvestments; this occurs notwithstanding in- or out-of-favour sectors. This means that government could not strong-arm or exploit out-of-favour producers to abide by policies that favour other sectors. Second, surveys analysed show that almost 40% have or would engage in political actions that challenged the government, despite the latter’s strength or autocracy. This means that citizens, of which labour is a large component, were also willing to disobey the government’s policies or directives. Together, the results challenge the model that strong government may successfully override preferences to push or even compel the compliance that underpins economic success.
2019	The accuracy of interest rate forecasts in the Asia-Pacific region: opportunities for portfolio managementWe analysed interest rate forecasts from Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand. We assessed 532 forecast time series with a total of 85,264 individual interest rate forecasts. To do so, we carried out a comparison to naive forecasts and investigated the forecast time series for topically orientated trend adjustments. In addition, we deployed the sign accuracy test and the unbiasedness test. The results are very sobering in part: 95.9% of all forecast time series are characterized by the phenomenon of topically orientated trend adjustments, and 99.4% of all forecast time series proved to be biased. Only a small proportion of the forecast time series (3.6%) reflected the future interest rate trend significantly more precisely than a naive forecast. However, at the same time some of the results of the study are surprisingly positive. The sign accuracy test revealed that 48.3% of all forecast time series predict the interest rate trend significantly better than a random walk forecast.
2019	U.S.?China trade conflict and the changing multilateral trading system: Korea’s perspectiveOne of the biggest risks to the world economy today is the U.S.?China trade tension. Korea is said to be par ticularly vulnerable to the trade conflict between the two economic giants because the United States and China are its two largest trading par tners. Under the scenario that both the United States and China mutually impose 25 percent of tariffs on all impor ts, Korea’s expor ts are projected to be reduced by USD 13.3 billion, just 2.2 percent of total expor ts in 2018. This apparent low impact is because a significant por tion of Korea’s expor ts to China are used for domestic consumption in China, not for re-expor t to third countries, including the United States. The adverse impact of the tit-for-tat tariffs between these two countries on Korea’s expor ts may not be fully realized yet, however, because of the effor ts by individual firms to avoid pre-announced tariffs. Thus, more time is needed to properly capture the influences of the U.S.?China trade tensions on the Korean economy. On the other hand, the current World Trade Organization (WTO) reform led by developed countries such as the United States, EU, and Japan can be interpreted as another version of a bilateral trade conflict between the United States and China. In fact, it targets state-owned enterprises’ (SOEs) subsidies, which are the backbone of China’s state-led economic development model. Fur thermore, WTO reform is closely related to U.S. complaints that the WTO cannot effectively control the unfair trade practices of non-market economies like China. Considering the consensus-based decision-making mechanism of the WTO, it is highly unlikely that WTO members will derive a successful agreement on the current WTO reform. Again, the WTO is in danger of dichotomy; one group led by developed members and the other group composed mostly of developing members. Each group will try to make new trade norms suited to only their own taste.
2019	Shift from Input-based Growth to Productivity-based Growth in Korean Manufacturing IndustryThe Korean economy has entered a period of relatively sluggish growth after experiencing very dynamic and high economic growth since the 1970s. The recent growth rate has been around 3 percent, which is similar to that in many advanced countries. According to growth accounting, economic growth is possible because of input increases and productivity increases. Productivity growth is much more important than input increases for long-term economic growth. We investigated whether there was a structural break in the Korean manufacturing industry and whether the main factor contributing to economic growth shifted from input to productivity. Using various econometric methods, we tested this question and found some interesting results. First, there was an important change in the 1990s, and the productivity trend seemed to show a big structural break at that time. Second, an input increase was the main factor contributing to economic growth before the break and productivity became more important after the break. Third, there was also a major change in the relationship between international trade and productivity.
2019	Alternative futures for North Korea economy: From the North Korean perspectivesRecent mood of reconciliation between the two Koreas as well as the two historic summits between Donald Trump and Kim Jong-Un over the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula attracted worldwide attention. Despite growing security concerns in North Korea, studies on North Korea have often neglected the viewpoints of the North Korean regime and most studies analyzed from the viewpoints of South Korea and the United States. In this respect, we explore the alternative futures for North Korea and its economy from the perspective of North Korea and concludes that unification with South Korea may not be the preferred future of the North. To envision alternative futures for North Korea, we utilize the ‘four generic alternative futures’ of Manoa School at the University of Hawaii. Based on the four alternative futures, we suggest four strategies for the North Korean economy to achieve its preferred future.
2019	Changes in trade variety, substitutability, and terms of trade effect: Evidence from south koreaThis paper quantifies the effects of both import and export varieties on a nation's terms of trade. Using the most disaggregate trade data (HS 10 digit) for South Korea over the period 1992?2015, I find that the growth in import variety caused a drop in the import price index by 2.44% per year and the growth in export variety caused a rise in the export price index by 1.46% per year. I identify that the effects of import and export varieties on the terms of trade are different due to the differences in variety change and substitutability. The conventional terms of trade that do not take into account changes in the varieties of import and export underestimated the true terms of trade by 3.9% per year. This implies that the growth of real income and productivity for the South Korean economy would be underestimated by the conventional terms of trade.
2019	Growth effects of fiscal decentralization with weak economic motivation: the case of South KoreaIn this study, we apply an extended Granger causality test to examine whether fiscal decentralization in South Korea creates pro-growth effects. Our results show that the pro-growth effects in South Korea are significant at the provincial level, only from a revenue perspective. This result may suggest that strengthening local taxation power (revenue-centered decentralization) can better serve a local economic development goal than simply loosening use restrictions on inter-governmental transfers (expenditure-biased decentralization). At the city and county levels, however, no such pro-growth effects exist; we instead find partial evidence in support of the reverse causality?economic growth precedes revenue decentralization. This conflicting result seems to be associated with scale economies in public goods provision and the gap in administrative capacity between province- and lower-level local governments.
2019	Fuelling Development? The Rise of New Development Finance in Korea’s Overseas Energy Cooperation with Southeast Asia‘Aid world’ has undergone critical changes and reforms to reconfigure the relationship between the role of private sector instruments and broadly defined development cooperation. Against the backdrop of the global/Euro financial crisis, development cooperation has become increasingly susceptible to financial instruments, logic, and actors. Such deepening of the financialisation?development nexus has been linked to the rise of the beyond aid agenda and the new and innovative development financing at its heart. Using the case of Korea’s energy development cooperation with Southeast Asia, our analysis shows how the keen take on the beyond aid agenda has further advanced the Korean government’s position on the utility of aid to pursue ‘national interests’ and ‘co-prosperity’. Also, our findings indicate that the Korean government mobilises both aid and other public finance to serve the national interests of (corporate) capital accumulation in the name of development.
2019	Does the Connectivity of the Belt and Road Initiative Contribute to the Economic Growth of the Belt and Road Countries?Since the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) has been implemented for five years, it is time to ask whether the BRI contributes to Belt and Road (BR) countries’ economic growth, and how are the five elements of connectivity implemented between China and its partner countries since the BRI was proposed. This study focuses on the development of the five elements of connectivity between China and the BR countries from 2008 to 2017 using a comprehensive connectivity index extracted from principle component analysis, and then investigating if the connectivity has contributed to the economic growth of the BR countries with quantitative analysis of the fixed effect econometrical model. It is found that Russia, South Korea, and Singapore presented the top three levels of connectivity with China with regard to the overall connectivity index, varying from 1.4 to 2.4. Madagascar and Panama have the lowest level of connectivity with China, with values of ?0.8 to ?1.1. The result of the fixed effect model shows that the connectivity of the BR countries with China contributes to their economic growth. This provides quantitative evidence that the connectivity between BR countries and China has a significant influence on the economic growth of those countries.
2019	Should the African lion learn from the Asian tigers? A comparative-historical study of FDI-oriented industrial policy in Ethiopia, South Korea and TaiwanEthiopia’s economy has been growing at breakneck speed for well over a decade now, earning the nickname as Africa’s lion. In recent years, the development literature on Ethiopia has paid particular attention to the role of industrial policy, especially the ways in which the Ethiopian experience compares to that of the Asian tigers. But through this comparative-historical perspective, little attention has been devoted to an important aspect of industrial policy in Ethiopia?foreign direct investment (FDI) in the manufacturing sector. This paper compares FDI-oriented industrial policy in Ethiopia in the current era (particularly focusing on light manufacturing) to that of South Korea and Taiwan between 1960 and 1990, arguably the two most generalisable cases among the Asian tigers. The paper argues that FDI-oriented industrial policy in Ethiopia seems to be bringing about short-term economic benefits, and is showing promise for further industrialisation. At the same time, it could benefit from taking more lessons from the long-term economic development perspective that characterised South Korea’s and Taiwan’s approach to FDI. Such a long-term perspective most importantly includes pro-active strategies to transfer technology from foreign firms to the domestic economy and the creation of backward linkages from foreign to domestic firms.
2019	The misadventure of Korea Aid: developmental soft power and the troubling motives of an emerging donorKorea Aid was a development project delivering Korean medical services, food and pop music via trucks to rural communities in Africa. The project was poorly conceived, vulnerable to corruption and ultimately ineffective. While Korea Aid marked a backward step for Korea’s development cooperation, revealing many of the challenges associated with emerging donors, it also reflected Korea’s aspiration to become a cultural and developmental alternative to hegemonic nations. This paper examines the historical circumstances that led to the formation of Korea Aid, and further argues that Korea Aid embodied a synthesis of ‘cultural soft power’ and ‘developmental soft power’ intended to create the perception of Korea as culturally and developmentally attractive and benign. Korea’s current pursuit of developmental soft power intentionally transforms the country’s development experience into a ‘politically odourless’ model, masking its authoritarian undercurrent and in turn camouflaging growing aspirations to expand its global influence.
2019	A study on port improvement with the activation of cross-border E-commerce: A study of pyeongtaek portPurpose - The purpose of this study is to present what the port of Pyeongtaek, the hub of Korean trade with China, should improve in the current situation, wherein the e-commerce trade volume between Korea and China is increasing due to the development of online technology. Design/methodology - In this study, through prior research and expert interviews on e-commerce and port activation between borders, we derived the main improvement factors for 1) Administration and Systems, 2) Facilities, 3) Transport, and 4) Manpower, and selected 12 detailed variables for the major improvement factors. To identify the relative importance of the major improvement factors, the Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method was applied, and a survey was conducted among 15 related experts. Findings - As a result, among the 12 detailed variables, Composition of Association (0.267) was the first factor to be improved, followed by Incentive Support (0.143) and E-Commerce Cluster (0.131). Based on these analyses, the main implications of this study are, first, in the current situation where the crossborder e-commerce market is growing, Pyeongtaek Port needs to form a consultative body among the government, local governments, and related businesses in connection with cross-border e-commerce and develop various support policies for the e-commerce market. Second, it will have to be able to provide differentiated services from competing ports by establishing e-commerce market-oriented clusters. Originality/value - In existing related studies, various improvements were presented to revitalize trade in line with the growth of the cross-border e-commerce market. However, with regard to most cross-border e-commerce businesses, one-dimensional improvement measures, such as improvement of payment systems, improvement of customs clearance services, and promotion of human resources, are presented in a piecemeal manner. In other words, none of the studies have proposed the importance and priority of each measure in terms of both the forward-looking and efficient allocation of resources, which is the purpose of this study. Therefore, this study contributed politically, practically, and academically by presenting countermeasures for ports to revitalize cross-border ecommerce and presenting strategic priorities using quantitative analysis methods.
2019	An empirical study on the effects of export promotion on Korea-China-Japan using logistics performance index (LPI)Purpose - “Trade Facilitation” aims the easier flow of trade across borders, driven not only by effective customs administration, the efficiency of appropriate authorities, but also by telecommunications, the quality of infrastructures and competent logistics. Facilitating trade will help lower trade development costs as well as improve economic development and enhance economic benefits for emerging economies at a time when imports and exports are sent in and out across borders several times in the form of intermediate and final products. Not only that, globalization is being accelerated, which in turn increases competitiveness and this makes logistics one of the key factors when it comes to international trade. Highly efficient logistics services promote product movement, ensure product safety and delivery speed, and reduce trade costs between countries. The purpose of this study is, by using the LPI indices based on gravity model estimates, to analyze the impact of each LPI component on trade with the 20 biggest exporting countries of Northeast Asian countries-Korea, Japan, and China-which account for 19.05% of global exports. Design/methodology - Also, this study statistically analyzes the impact of trade on Northeast Asian countries’ top 20 exporting countries, using the LPI indices relevant to Trade Facilitation based on the gravity model estimates. Findings - As a result, it was turned out that the distance, GDP, and the LPI components have relevant impact on the trade exports of all three countries but demonstrated little relation to the demographic perspective. Originality/value - The study also found we can increase the trade volume by improving three countries’ trade partners’ LPI indices since Korea, Japan, and China share most of their 20 biggest trade partners.
2019	Assessment of competitiveness improvement on multinational enterprises based in KoreaPurpose - This study’s the ultimate goal is to analyze competitiveness improvement on multinational enterprises as firstly providing which factors are to strengthen or weaken competitiveness, secondly investigating if hypotheses development and research design is correct and thirdly finding significant implications for research and practices across country specific advantage. Design/methodology - Using feedback data provided by 250 firms, we extracted variable factors and hypotheses, which were empirically carried out by reliability and validity testing, correlation analysis, path analysis, and confirmatory factor analysis to prove which factors are to make the positive effect on the improvement of overseas subsidiaries’ management performance and competitiveness. Findings - Through proceeding empirical analysis study, we found out that technology management capability, knowledge management capability, and local management capability had a statistically significant effect on the improvement of overseas subsidiaries’ competitiveness, while linked activity capability revealed a negative effect. Originality/value - During business globalization, overseas investments and establishment of overseas subsidiaries have been essential. It is anticipated that this study results would be meaningful for analysis on multinational enterprises’ competitiveness and helpful in promoting their entry into Korean market and enhancing their competitiveness. This paper would also help Korea government develops new FDI model and induce more investment from global major companies to Korea region.
2019	Developing international sukuk in East Asia: Implications from Hong Kong sukukThe purpose of this research is to review historical development of Islamic finance in individual East Asian economies, including China. Japan. South Korea and Hong Kong, and examine the success factors of the Hong Kong Sukuk issuances in 2014-2017. The research is a qualitative smdy applying case smdy method. It is found that the East Asian economies do play efforts to develop their Islamic capital markets although they have very limited size of Muslim population. Their progress on this development generally remains to be slow. The Hong Kong Sukuk is a breakthrough, carrying a total issuance value of US$3 billion. The Sukuk issuances, treated as a kind of asset-backed securities with restrictions on financing purposes, are distributed to international investors by investment banks from Hong Kong. Middle East and Malaysia. Success factors of these issuances include involvement of an issuer with high credit quality, recognition by central bank for using the Sukuk in its discount facility for commercial banks, centralized clearing services for the Sukuk and alobal bankina network for underwriting the Sukuk. The lessons from the Hong Kong Sukuk are good references for other economies to develop their regional Islamic capital markets and to integrate the markets into the global capital market.
2019	The effects of career orientations on entrepreneurial satisfaction and business sustainabilityThis study empirically analyzes how the career orientation factors of startup entrepreneurs affect entrepreneurial satisfaction as well as business sustainability. We propose directions for startup sustainability and development. Based on previous research, we defined the career orientation of entrepreneurs through the five orientation factors of security, autonomy, technical competence, managerial competence, and entrepreneurial creativity. We constructed a research model to determine whether these factors have a causal relationship with entrepreneurial satisfaction or business sustainability through the medium of organizational entrepreneurship. We surveyed startups in Korea using a questionnaire and collected and analyzed a total of 282 points of survey data. The analysis result? demonstrated that the entrepreneurial creativity and managerial competence of the members of a startup can play an important role within entrepreneurial satisfaction and business sustainability. Both autonomy and technical competence exhibited no effect on entrepreneurial satisfaction and business sustainability through the medium of entrepreneurship, while security showed a negative effect. In order to improve entrepreneurial satisfaction and achieve business sustainability, we confirmed that it was more important for startups to consider the creativity and business management competences of entrepreneurs rather than pursue business security or have a technology-oriented attitude.
2019	Economic ties of the russian far east with the Korean StatesThe article investigates the issue of trade and economic ties between the Far Eastern regions of Russia and the countries of the Korean peninsula. The reasons for the slowing of economic cooperation are revealed. South Korean business strategy is to cover a large area of the Russian Far East with small projects in order to monitor the socioeconomic processes in various areas of life on these territories. By maintaining ties with the Russian Far East, the South Korean business is tackling its tasks in confronting the challenges of globalization, and is increasing its competitiveness in rivalry with China and Japan for markets and energy resources. Remaining the second largest economic partner of the Russian Far East after China, South Korea is seeking to turn economic ties with Russian regions into an effective tool for confronting its economic rivals. For South Korean business, it is also important that Russia is able to contribute to the expansion of inter-Korean economic ties by leading tripartite economic projects. Considering the growing influence of China in East Asia and the expansion of Russian-Chinese cooperation in the field of energy, Russia needs to create a balance of economic partners by increasing cooperation with other countries of the region, in particular, with the DPRK and the ROK. This becomes relevant also because both Korean states are extremely interested in maintaining close trade and economic ties with Russia in general, and with the Russian Far East in particular. Although the volume, content and quality of these ties with both Korean states are not comparable, the significance of economic relations with each of them is important for the further development of the Russian Far East. Their value also lies in the possibility of providing technology, investment and labor. It is concluded that international economic sanctions did not reduce the interest of the Korean states in cooperation with the Russian Far East, but led to a slowdown in the development of foreign trade.
2019	Does history repeat itself? Economic development and policy convergence in Vietnam and South KoreaWith one of the world's fastest rates of economic growth since the 1990s, Vietnam could be seen as Asia's next tiger economy. This study examines whether there has been policy convergence between the older East Asian developmental state model of economic development and that adopted by Vietnam. The economic development trajectories of South Korea and Vietnam are compared to identify similarities and differences. It was found that while policy convergence is evident there is also some divergence between the two countries.
2019	Can the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership minimise the harm from the United States?China trade war?Using ex post tariff schedules for the first time, it was found that the global gains provided by the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) are not enough to overcome the negative impacts of the United States?China trade dispute. While trade tensions cause China's welfare loss to be more than twice as large as the United States, they provide some trade diversion to RCEP members. But of concern is if India successfully delays the conclusion of the RCEP even by a year, there will be a global loss of US$17.7 billion. The RCEP is also beneficial for the emerging economy of Vietnam and the high-tariff-imposing Korean economy. The results obtained here are, however, conservative as reduction in non-tariff barriers and other positive spillover effects of trade liberalisation related to investment and productivity improvements due to competition or increased intra-industry trade could not be accounted for.
2019	Per capita output convergence across Asian countries: Evidence from covariate unit root test with an endogenous structural breakThis study investigates long-run convergence of per capita output across ten Asian countries over 1960 to 2014 by taking advantage of possible economic growth determinants, which may be responsible for setting Asian countries on a long-term steady-state growth path. We simultaneously examine the presence of output convergence in the region, as well as the statistical significance of these economic growth determinants, by using a unit root test with a stationary covariate. In addition, the study allows for the presence of endogenous structural changes in the time series under investigation in order to capture sharp drops in per capita outputs, which may be brought about by influential economic events, such as serious economic slumps in domestic economies or the global financial crises in 1997?98 and 2008?09. The limiting distribution of the covariate unit root test that permits structural breaks is also derived. The results show significant evidence to support the convergence hypothesis. In particular, asymptotically absolute convergence holds among Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. In addition, Thailand shows a convergence tendency in terms of asymptotically relative convergence toward Singapore. Malaysia, Indonesia, and India also turn out to converge toward Hong Kong in an asymptotically relative sense. Certain potential growth determinants, such as the trade/GDP ratio, inflation rate, government expenditure/GDP ratio, and quality of human capital, may help these countries achieve and maintain the long-run convergence process toward the reference countries in the region.
2019	Inclusive growth through Saemaul Undong in KoreaSaemaul Undong (SMU) is a ‘comprehensive community development programme’ launched by the government of the Republic of Korea in 1970 to reduce the economic gap between rural and urban areas, and subsequently extended to urban factories, schools and offices. A series of SMU projects designed and operated on the principles of ‘by the people, for the people, and of the people’ contributed to inclusive growth in Korea by performing three core tasks of human civilization through people’s capacity-building: establishing ‘governance’, accumulating ‘social capital’ and practising ‘sustainability’. These SMU projects cultivated various value chains from production to processing and marketing that increased cooperation, expanded value added, reduced the gaps between rural and urban areas, mitigated gender inequality, and contributed to inclusive growth through an equitable sharing of the benefits.
2019	Transmission effects of the U.S. and China monetary policy shocks on the worldThis paper applies the Markov-switching model to analyse the transition probabilities and generalized method of moments (GMM) with Newey?West heteroscedasticity and autocorrelation consistent covariance estimators (HAC) to examine the continuity of monetary policies in different countries when the U.S. and China change their monetary policies. Our results indicate that the euro area’s monetary authority continues to increase/decrease their money supply to stimulate/depress the economy. In Japan, long-term economic recession motivated the Japanese government to maintain a loose money supply. The continuity of Korea’s monetary policy in expansionary states lasts up to 5.1 years. Besides, the outcomes show the implementation of U.S. quantitative easing (QE), overnight reverse repurchase agreement (RRP), and Chinese RRP policies have significant spillover effects on other nations. Particularly, the effects on the euro area are the largest. Furthermore, although the monetary policies of China and the euro area seem to move in opposite directions, they are interdependent.
2019	Detection of earnings management as a measure of income smoothing on fluctuations in exchange rates: Managerial implications for korean exportersPurpose - Foreign Exchange Rates (FER) have been one of the most significant factors for both Korean exporters and the economy of Korea. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether exporters with a high level of Exchange Rate Elasticity of Sales (ERES) make the use of earnings management for Income Smoothing (IS). Design/methodology - Income smoothing was obtained using the methodology suggested by Leuz, Nanda and Wysocki (2003). Accruals-based Earnings Management (AEM) was estimated using Discretionary Accruals (DA) calculated by the operant Jones Model developed by Dechow, Sloan and Sweeney (1995). Real Earnings Management (REM) was obtained using the methodologies suggested by Roychowdhury (2006) and Cohen and Zarowin (2010). Data were 2,402 firm years of public listed companies on the KRX, which were not in the financial industry and had a settlement of accounts in December for the period from 2013 to 2017. Findings - Results of the evaluation are as follows. First, companies with higher levels of ERES have relatively lower levels of smoothing of reported income. This might be because a fluctuation in sales caused by an exchange rate fluctuation has a direct impact on the volatility of the reported income. Second, companies with high levels of both ERES and IS have a positive correlation with both AEM and REM. This might be because companies with high levels of IS engage in earnings management to smooth reported income. Specifically, it is possible to assume that for smoothing the reported income, not only AEM but also REM is practiced. Third, companies with high levels of ERES but low levels of IS have a negative correlation with both AEM and REM. This could be interpreted as companies exhibiting low levels of IS due to higher levels of ERES tend to control IS. In addition, such results were supported by firms relying highly on exporting, and are consequently sensitive to exchange rate fluctuation. Therefore, it may conclude that companies with high levels of ERES make the use of earnings management as a means of IS. Originality/value - This study can find its significance from the fact that it is the first study, empirically verifying that companies of Korea, where exportation is a large part, use both AEM and REM as a means for smoothing reported income upon facing exchange rate fluctuations. In addition, it is highly expected that the results of this study could be useful for participants of financial markets when making IS-related decisions.
2019	Assessing transit competitiveness in Seoul considering actual transit travel times based on smart card dataTransit is important for alleviating traffic congestion, air pollution, and parking problems caused by excessive auto traffic in sustainable transport systems. Therefore, it is crucial to enhance transit ridership in a city by providing a more competitive transit service. Meanwhile, with the recent development of traffic information collection technologies, it is possible to acquire more accurate and rich information on transit and auto travel times through smart card data and map-based application programming interface (API) services. In this study, we analyze transit competitiveness compared to autos in Seoul using smart card data, which can represent actual transit travel times. Auto travel information is obtained from the T map, which is the most popular navigation application in Korea. As a methodology, we present a new transit competitiveness index to measure transit competitiveness for the network-wide analysis based on the travel time. The analysis of the results shows that the transit is more competitive for the people commuting to and from two major business districts, i.e., Gangnam business district (GBD) and Central business district (CBD), in Seoul on peak hours. This means that the transit system in Seoul is well-equipped, and people can easily access to employment or other opportunities by using transit. However, there are some residential and another major business district where transit is not competitive. The results also show that variability in transit travel time at peak hours may cause a decrease in transit competitiveness. We also suggest recommendations to improve transit competitiveness in Seoul. Based on the recommendations, the Seoul government should strive to improve transit competitiveness.
2019	Where do people spend their leisure time on dusty days? Application of spatiotemporal behavioral responses to particulate matter pollutionIn recent years, the deterioration of air quality due to high levels of particulate matter (PM: especially PM 10 and PM 2.5) has become a transboundary environmental problem in countries of the East Asia Pacific region. People tend to change their behavior in response to bad air quality, and those changes generate a wide range of socioeconomic implications. Despite their significance, however, the effects of PM on human behavior, especially behaviors involving outdoor activities, have not been sufficiently examined. This study employed panel analyses to empirically investigate differences in the preferences for recreational spaces with changes in the PM 2.5 level in Seoul, South Korea, from March 1 to June 30, 2017. We found a statistically significant relationship between the PM 2.5 level and the number of visitors to particular types of study sites in the daytime on weekdays and all days of the weekends. In both time groups, the number of visitors in open spaces decreased, while those in commercial spaces increased with heightened PM 2.5 level. But the numbers of visitors to indoor sports facilities showed no significant changes with the level of PM 2.5. We also found differing levels of pedestrian volume change according to sub-categories of open and commercial spaces. As an early empirical study of the impact of PM on human behavior, this work will help evaluate environmental policies and make possible safer community development planning.
2019	Do Non-exporting Plants Benefit from Exporting Peer Plants?*This study examines indirect spillover effects at plant level within firms by analyzing the performance of non-exporting plants with exporting peer plants by using Korean plant?firm matched data from 2007 to 2013. Our results show that there are no significant differences in growth between non-exporting plants and their exporting peer plants in the same firms, whereas significant differences exist among non-exporting plants depending on whether their peers export. This implies that exporting peer plants are important channels through which non-exporting plants benefit within a firm.
2019	Impact of unlisted small and medium-sized enterprises' business strategies on future performance and growth sustainabilityThis study aims to identify, from among business strategies presented in Miles and Snow (1978, 2003), those that increase the future performance or growth sustainability of unlisted small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in Korea. (This study applied the scope of SMEs based on Article 2 of the Enforcement Decree of the Tax Exemption Restriction Act in Korea. The Korean tax law sets the scope of SMEs based on independence criteria set by the scale of sales, assets, and affiliation, and subordination. For example, the size standard of a manufacturing industry can be regarded as a small business if the average sales amount is less than 150 billion won or the total amount of assets is less than 500 billion won for three years.) In addition, it analyzes measured variables of business strategy for factors influencing unlisted SMEs' future performance and growth potential. The objective is to determine a business strategy for unlisted SMEs, which are small, financially challenged, and have shorter lifespans and faster growth rates. The results highlight that investment in research and development  for new products influences both future performance and growth sustainability. R&D is an important intangible resource of the firm, which increases future risk due to high future uncertainty, but it is also an important factor to increase future performance or value based on resource-based theory. In the accounting field, research and development expenditure also provided evidence of future excess return or performance. This study is meaningful because it identifies the role of research and development in increasing future growth sustainability in SMEs, thus emphasizing change and innovation.
2019	Development of a class model for improving creative collaboration based on the online learning system (Moodle) in KoreaThis study aims to develop a Modular Object-Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment (Moodle)-based online learning system and derive a class model to enhance learners' creative collaboration capabilities. The research method for this is first to analyze the functional elements of the online learning system to enhance creative collaboration among the functions of the Moodle online learning system. Second, a class model is derived to enhance creative collaboration by applying the constructivist teaching-learning principle. Third, we conduct a verification of the effectiveness of the Moodle-based class model that was developed to enhance creative collaboration. The results of the study show that, among the functions of the Moodle online learning system, forms, real-time conferencing, reciprocal evaluation,Wiki, and blogs have the ability to enhance creative collaboration. Second, the class model for promoting creative collaboration based on a mood-based online learning system consists of self-reflections, learner-driven learning, professional learning, practical task, and the role of the processor. Third, after verifying the application effect of the Moodle-based class model for university students, a significant effect is found in the creative collaboration of university students. The results of this study suggest that: First, the Moodle online learning system should be utilized to provide learners with a variety of online learning opportunities to promote creative collaboration. Second, the teaching-learning operation manual needs to be developed later in order for the class model to be effectively implemented at the classroom site to promote creative collaboration based on the Moodle online learning system.
2019	The Revival of ‘Big Government’ Discourse in South Korea, 2017After the democratisation of South Korea in 1987, political discourse on ‘big government’ nearly disappeared, largely because it recalled past authoritarianism. Authoritarian states are highly likely to employ ‘big government’ ? exerting policy influence over the distribution of private resources ? to sustain their political power, and Korea’s authoritarian state was no exception. Thus, newly inaugurated President Moon Jae-in’s official implication that he would pursue big government is notable, because he claimed to represent pro-democracy groups that opposed both historical authoritarianism and the former president’s undemocratic governance. In this context, this study examines external and internal political-economic factors behind the revival of big government discourse in Korea. Results show that critical factors included the lack of pressure in the global capitalist market and the dominance of governmentalists over marketists in the political-economic discourse influencing the administration’s maintenance and expansion of its political foundation.
2019	The president and asymmetric use of informationWhile presidents try to allocate resources to their interests in budgeting process, they have limited power to influence because the government budget is approved by the legislative body. This study investigates whether presidents asymmetrically use information on the efficiency of programs to allocate more resources to their interests. Specifically, I focus on leftover funds in the government reporting. Growing leftover funds indicate inefficiency of the programs as they are the results of lack of demand or operational problems in implementation. Using data from the Korean government, I find that the change of leftover funds of programs and the?following year’s budget has a negative relation only when the change of leftover funds is negative, which suggests that the?efficiency of the program improves. This phenomenon becomes more salient when the programs are related to the?president’s political interests. This suggests that presidents allocate resources to the programs of their interests by asymmetrically using the information on efficiency. This study contributes to the extant literature by identifying one of the presidents’ tools to affect the budgeting process.
2019	Financial liberalization, government stability, and currency crises - some evidence from South Korea and emerging market economiesPurpose - Recent empirical studies have reached mixed results on the effects of financial liberalization and currency crises. We argue that this relationship is likely to depend both on whether controls are primarily on the degrees of financial liberalization and on the stability of the government. Using the disaggregated data on financial liberalization recently developed by Abiad et al (2010) for a sample of 30 emerging countries over the period 1995-2015, we attempt to investigate the political economy determinants of currency crises. Design/methodology - Our empirical model considers the relationship between financial liberalization and currency crises for emerging market economies. This study employs the existing theoretical framework to identify the disaggregate level for financial liberalization across countries. Using a multivariate logit model, this study attempts to estimate the interrelationship among financial liberalization, government stability and currency crises complemented by a case study of South Korea. Findings - Our main findings can be summarized as follows: we find strong support for the proposition that more liberalized financial institutions are positively associated with the probability of currency crises especially under less stable governments, but reduce the risks of currency crises especially for more stable governments. We also examine the role of financial systems with the case of South Korea after Asian financial crises and the results are further supported and consistent with the empirical findings. Originality/value - Existing studies focus on the economic factors across countries. This paper instead attempts to evaluate the effects of financial liberalization and currency crises by incorporating political considerations with newly developed dataset on financial liberalization, which are essential to the understanding of the causes of currency crises.
2019	The effect of professional sport spectator's experience economy factors on satisfaction: Focused on mediating effects of attachment and a sense of communityThe purpose of this study is to investigate the relationship between the spectator experience and satisfaction with a focus on attachment and a sense of community. The survey was given to random spectators who watched KBO (The Korea Baseball Organization) games in 2018. With 189 surveyed participants, this study used exploratory factor analysis and reliability analysis to verify the reliability and validity of the measured variables. The hierarchical multiple regression correlation was employed as a statistical method for the hypotheses of this study. The findings showed that spectators' experiences have influences on satisfaction. Among the experience factors, education and entertainment affect attachment, and education has the only significant influence on a sense of community. In addition, spectators' attachment and a sense of community positively influence satisfaction. Attachment and a sense of community have a relatively mediated effect on spectators' experiences and satisfaction. This study confirmed the need for various spectator experiences at KBO games, and the importance of place attachment or a sense of community.
2019	Residential mobility and social trust in urban neighborhoods in the Seoul metropolitan area, KoreaAlthough urban scholars have considered population change an important barrier to the generation of social trust, studies accounting for the mechanisms at work have been relatively rare. Drawing from a dataset that combines a survey of 1348 residents nested within 45 neighborhoods in and around Seoul with census data, this article identifies neighborhood processes whereby residential mobility breeds social distrust. The relationship between social trust, neighborhood cohesion, and residential mobility is analyzed using two-stage least squares regression. The evidence suggests two underlying mechanisms?unbundling neighboring ties (the process-based channel) and diluting sense of belonging (the characteristic-based channel)?that together mediate the deleterious effect of rapid population change on the development of sense of trustworthiness on a more generalized level. Residents in a neighborhood that experiences a destabilizing change in local demographics are found to have lower levels of neighborly ties and sense of belonging, which, in turn, limit their ability to trust in general others in the neighborhood.
2019	Sign here, please! On developing countries’ market access conditions in regional trade agreementsHave regional trade agreements (RTAs) improved market access conditions for developing countries? Employing a measure expressing effective tariff margins and using disaggregated panel data for a sample of 45 developing country exporters, 60 export destinations, and the period between 1991 and 2015, it is shown that this question can generally be answered in the affirmative. Although the effect is estimated to be moderate, RTAs might thus be an important long-run building block in the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in order to increase developing countries’ participation in world trade. On closer inspection, however, for the countries included in the sample, there is considerable variation depending on the choice of integration partners and economic sectors. More specifically, market access improvements cannot be found for African economies in South?South agreements and developing countries engaging formally with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) or the Republic of Korea, while leading industrialized nations are reluctant to grant improved market access to developing countries in RTAs especially in capital-intensive (high-productivity) manufacturing sectors.
2019	Dynamic response of bank-intermediated trade finance to a global liquidity shockThis paper investigates the bank-level responses of a bank-intermediated instrument of trade finance to a negative global liquidity shock in Korea. Using a factor-augmented vector autoregression approach, the results show that there exists significant heterogeneity in bank-level trade-finance responses to a global liquidity shock. In addition, we find that the source of the heterogeneity is the bank-level foreign currency liquidity condition; banks with a better foreign currency liquidity condition may dampen the negative impact of a global liquidity shock on trade-finance.
2019	Japan’s New National Security Policy and Defense Strategy in a New EraThe security environment in Northeast Asia is changing dramatically and rapidly. Even more concerning than the North Korea issue is China’s strengthening of military power and activity. The author, a member of the House of Representatives of the National Diet of Japan and two-term Minister of Defense until October 2018, discusses recent developments in the region in terms of new methods of warfare, competition for technological hegemony, and Japan’s defense program. The article analyzes key relationships in the region, including the US-China relationship, the Japan-China relationship, and the Japan-Korea relationship and provides the author’s views of how best to manage these relationships in the mid- to long-term. This article is based on remarks delivered on March 6, 2019 for US?Japan LINK, a non-profit organization based in Tokyo.
2019	Technological Progress and Youth Employment in South KoreaThis paper analyzes the extent to which technology progress and youth employment are related. In doing so, we divide workers into two groups?young workers and old (prime-aged) workers - and then estimate the elasticity of substitution between (physical) capital and workers a la Jaimovich et?al. (2013. “The Demand for Youth: Explaining Age Differences in the Volatility of Hours.” American Economic Review 103 (7): 3022?3044) by using the Korean labour market data between 2000 and 2014. Our findings indicate that the elasticity of substitution is greater (or at least not smaller) for young workers than for old workers.
2019	Development cooperation and post-colonial critique: an investigation into the South Korean modelWith the rise of the South?South Development Cooperation (SSDC), the international development community has entered into a new paradigm of development cooperation. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development?Development Assistance Committee (OECD-DAC) has had to consider what recently added members might have to offer, particularly South Korea given its dramatic transformation from official development assistance (ODA) recipient to donor. Post-colonial theory sees ODA as a system that reinforces the traditional hierarchy of North?South relations and reaffirms the hegemony of dominant countries; the SSDC has faced similar neo-colonial allegations. By employing post-colonial theory this paper investigates some neo-­colonial criticisms of the ODA activities of major OECD-DAC and SSDC providers, before turning its focus on those of South Korea to determine whether it does indeed offer an alternative strategy to development. The African region was chosen as the focus in light of the increased amount of aid South Korea has allocated to the region. This paper concludes by offering a different role South Korea might play engaging within the OECD-DAC/SSDC context.
2019	Foreign Direct Investment, Female Education, Capital Formation, and Economic Growth in Japan and South KoreaThe influence of foreign direct investment (FDI) on host country‘s economic growth is a widely explored issues in the existing economic literature. This study attempts to examine the role of foreign direct investment, capital formation, and expansion of female education on economic growth of Japan during the period 1971?2014, using time series observations. The study further makes a comparison regarding the association with FDI and economic growth with South Korea, another major OECD economy of Asia The study utilises the auto-regressive distributed lag (ARDL) bounds approach to cointegration to examine the long run causality association among the variables. Today, for sustainable economic development the social and institutional policy issues are important. The paper explores one such social issue, namely gender and economic prosperity. This paper has novel contributions in the current research on time series, econometric analysis for the following reasons: (1) it has investigated the relationship between economic growth, foreign direct investment and capital formation in a gendered differential framework (utilising the role of human capital formation among men versus women; (2) the study covers a long period and more recent time period (till 2014), which concurs with the upsurge of world FDI movements and (3) the study also explores the major structural breaks of the two economies and how economic growth is impacted thereof.
2019	Revisiting Industrial Unionism in Korea in the Wake of the 1997 Financial Crisis: Neoliberal Rhetoric, Bargaining (De)centralization and the StateThis paper revisits the rise of industrial unionism in Korea in the wake of the 1997 financial crisis at the turn of the twenty-first century. By closely investigating the reorganization of labour unionism in the context of neoliberalization, it challenges the alleged converging impact of neoliberal rhetoric or hegemony on industrial relations. To this end, this paper raises following substantive questions: How far did Korea’s industrial unionism advance under the new economic circumstances and how stable was it? More importantly, what were the fundamental factors behind such re-formation of labour unions? This paper finds that the transformation of labour unions in Korea is a mixture of the rise of industrial unionism and the persistence of enterprise unionism, that is to say a precarious progress of industrial unionism. It argues that behind the unstable development of industrial unionism in Korea were state-fostered legacy of power imbalance within labour in favour of enterprise unions, especially at chaebols, and continuing state intervention in the re-formation of labour unions in the neoliberal era. Finally, it argues that the seemingly sweeping neoliberal rhetoric or hegemony does not override the long-standing political-economic institutions of industrial relations and the leverage of the state, but it is filtered and reified by them.
2019	R&amp;D spillover effects on firms’ export behavior: evidence from South KoreaThis paper investigates the spillover effects of R&D investments made by foreign multinational enterprises (MNEs) and domestic firms on their export activities, using a manufacturing firm-level panel dataset from South Korea. The theoretical framework predicts two conflicting spillover effects: positive technology spillovers and negative market rivalry spillovers. Thus, the net spillover effect is determined by the relative degree of the two conflicting spillovers. The empirical results show that negative intra-industry spillovers exist from the R&D of foreign MNEs on the export performance of firms, which implies that, in general, negative market rivalry spillovers dominate positive technology spillovers. However, notably, in the case of firms equipped with absorptive capacity, the negative spillovers can be alleviated; firms can gain positive spillovers by muting negative ones. Firms without absorptive capacity cannot avoid such negative effects. This paper shows that absorptive capacity is vital in capturing positive spillovers as firms build competency by accumulating their own know-how and improving their ability to capture better external technologies.
2019	Emotions, indigenous affective ties, and social network theory?The case of South KoreaThis study conceptually explores the structural and emotional aspects of informal social networks in South Korea by examining the indigenous concepts of jeong, woori, inmaek, and yongo in relation to the theories of social networks, social capital, and social exchange. We suggest extending extant knowledge of the latter by pursuing the geocentric integration of Eastern and Western schools of thought on crucial elements of social networks, chiefly by focusing on affective characteristics compared to the conventional and dominant focus on cognitive characteristics. Moreover, we highlight the dualistic nature of informal ties by adapting the notions of yin-yang and zhongyong. Based on the results of our analysis, we suggest explicitly integrating interpersonal affection and the role of emotions as the constituting elements of social network development and cohesion.
2019	The relevance of inter-personal ties and inter-organizational tie strength for outcomes of research collaborations in South KoreaInter-personal ties have long been recognized as relevant not only for interaction between individuals, but also for knowledge transfer and other important outcomes of business activities. This applies in particular to East Asian countries such as South Korea where informal social networks are widely prevalent in business and society. However, less is known about their role in inter-organizational collaboration efforts, such as research collaborations. This exploratory study examines the relevance of inter-personal ties and inter-organizational tie strength for interaction quality and outcomes of research collaborations in South Korea. Two types of research collaborations are studied: new product development (NPD) collaborations between companies and university-industry research collaborations (UICs). Inter-personal ties are found in a majority of both types of collaborations being studied. However, whereas inter-organizational tie strength is positively related to outcomes of these research collaborations, inter-personal ties are not. Managers should thus not primarily rely on inter-personal ties for partner selection and the management of research collaborations.
2019	A future, but at what cost? Cuba and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s quest for sustainable developmentThis paper looks at the question of development by focusing on both Cuba and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. At the heart of the project is the notion of sustainability, and how to achieve well-being even in the most challenging conditions, isolated economies and sanction-laden realities. This is done by tracing both countries’ engagement and development in the fields of health and education. We suggest that political engagement with these countries should be prioritised, without challenging an established political order but with its consent, and with the hope that future generations are socialised to a culture of openness.
2019	Do sterilized foreign exchange interventions create money?The growth of official foreign reserves in emerging Asian countries over recent decades has been extensive but its effects on the money market appear to be well sterilized in that decreases in interest rates or acceleration of credit growth have not been registered. We analyze the effect of foreign exchange intervention on components of the banking system's balance sheet for 19 emerging economies that pursued an independent interest rate policy and did not maintain an exchange rate peg. The sample includes six Asian countries (India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand). We apply a vector autoregressive technique to quarterly data for the period 2001Q4 to 2016Q1. For the sample as a whole, we find that money stock tends to expand in response to an increase in the foreign reserves of the central bank. For the Asian countries in particular, we conclude that external transactions have contributed to money growth acceleration despite sterilization that succeeded in stabilizing interest rates.
2019	Macroeconomic buffer effects of mega-FTA formation: A CGE analysis for KoreaPurpose - As global trade disputes intensify and global trade uncertainty increases due to the prevailing trade protectionism all over the world, mega-FTAs such as the RCEP and CPTPP are suggested as strategic trade policy options for export-driven small open economies, such as Korea. This paper aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of Korea’s mega-FTA participation and the induced implications for the Korean economy. Design/methodology - We use a multi-region, multi-sector global CGE model, and investigate the different effects of both the US-China and US-EU trade wars on the relative changes in GDP, welfare, and trade under different trade policy regimes; (i) Korea does not participate in any mega-FTA, (ii) Korea participates in the RCEP, and (iii) Korea participates in the CPTPP. Findings - We show, among others, that though industrial effects might be largely varied, the overall enlarging of free trade zones through multilateral mega-FTA participation may contribute significantly to the macroeconomic soundness and stability of Korea, even when global trade protectionism prevails. Under RCEP and CPTPP trade regimes, Korea’s GDP may increase even when the global trade environment deteriorates as trade wars occur and intensify between the US and China, or between the US and EU. It is also estimated that RCEP participation increases Korea’s GDP, welfare (measured in equivalent variation), and total trade by 1.12%, $1.09 billion, and 2.54%, respectively, while CPTPP participation increases them by 0.19%, $0.92 billion, and 0.13%, respectively. Originality/value - Existing studies usually focus on the direct impacts of mega-FTA participation on macroeconomic variables such as GDP, welfare, and trade, and do not consider the possible buffer effects of a mega-FTA when the global trade environment worsens. In this paper, we analyze and quantify not only the direct impacts of RCEP and CPTPP on the main macroeconomic variables but also the possible buffer effects of the RCEP and CPTPP in the cases of the US-China and US-EU trade wars.
2019	Long-run and short-run causality from exchange rates to the Korea composite stock price indexThe paper aims to test long-term and short-term causality from four exchange rates, the Korean won/$US, the Korean won/Euro, the Korean won/Japanese yen, and the Korean won/Chinese yuan, to the Korea Composite Stock Price Index in the presence of several macroeconomic variables using monthly data from January 1986 to June 2018. The results of Johansen cointegration tests show that there exists at least one cointegrating equation, which indicates that long-run causality from an exchange rate to the Korean stock market will exist. The results of vector error correction estimates show that: for long-term causality, the coefficient of the error correction term is significant with a negative sign, that is, long-term causality from exchange rates to the Korean stock market is observed. For short-term causality, the coefficient of the Japanese yen exchange rate is significant with a positive sign, that is, short-term causality from the Japanese yen exchange rate to the Korean stock market is observed. The coefficient of the financial crises i.e. 1997-1999 Asian financial crisis and 2007- 2008 global financial crisis on the endogenous variables in the model and the Korean economy is significant. The result indicates that the financial crises have considerably affected the Korean economy, especially a negative effect on money supply.
2019	Examining political connections to study institutional change: Evidence from two unexpected election outcomes in South KoreaWe argue that the analysis of multiple political connections in an event study framework can improve the study of institutional change. Based on a unique data set of multiple political relationships of 4,936 South Korean board of director members, we show that the large business conglomerates, the chaebol, did not benefit from the unexpected conservative election victories in the 2012 South Korean parliamentary and presidential elections. Personal connections to the presidential candidates and to the opposition party were relevant for the stock returns of small firms. Our findings suggest that Korea's political economy has evolved into a hybrid regime in which the political power of large multinational corporations is limited, but political connections still matter for smaller firms. The corruption scandal that led to the impeachment of President Park in 2017 and the long-term development of market capitalisation appear to be congruent with the results of our study.
2019	The effectiveness of credit policy: Evidence from the Republic of KoreaIn response to the global financial crisis and subsequent Great Recession, central banks embarked on a variety of unconventional measures. Among others, credit policy has been widely employed in many advanced economies. However, credit policy is far less understood than unconventional monetary policy by both policy makers and academic scholars. This paper sheds new light on what credit policy is, how it differs from other central bank policies, and what its risks and limitations might be. In particular, I examine whether credit policy has been effective in stimulating the real economy in the Republic of Korea.
2019	How does product market competition affect corporate takeover in an emerging economy?This study investigates the effect of product market competition as an external control mechanism on the operation and efficiency of corporate takeovers in an emerging economy. Empirically, we find that firms in more competitive product markets are more likely to experience a change in control than those in less competitive markets after controlling for other firm and industry characteristics. Further, the positive effect of a change in control on shareholder wealth is observed in more competitive product markets but disappears in less competitive markets. The results imply that product market competition improves market efficiency for corporate control in an emerging economy with less developed capital markets and weak investor protection, supporting the complementary Hypothesis between product market competition and corporate takeover.
2019	Analysis on the determinants of currency invoicing in Korean tradeWe investigate the determinants of currency invoicing in trade using import and export transactions data between Korea and its 30 major trading partners from 2000 to 2013. We find a noticeably different pattern of currency invoicing from advanced countries. For example, a large market share of Korean exporters in partner countries does not guarantee more use of the Korean won in currency invoicing. This might be attributed to a low degree of Korean won's internationalisation and the strong coalescing effect. We also observe that the higher the level of industry product differentiation, the weaker the coalescing motive. In addition, we verify that the share of invoicing in the currency of Korea's trading partner tends to be higher when the partner country has (i) a larger trade volume, (ii) higher level of financial development, (iii) lower inflation and lower price volatility and (iv) its own currency with lower transaction costs.
2019	Regional preferences for the living environment and mobility of researchers and general workers: the case of KoreaSince 2005, the Korean government has relocated national research institutes from the Seoul Metropolitan Area (SMA) to other parts of the nation. The main purpose of this relocation is to ameliorate disparities in population and economic power across regions. However, it turns out that only 27% of researchers in the SMA have actually relocated. This implies that researcher’s preference for a living environment should be reflected in the planning process. Hence, this paper attempts to specify the migration behaviors of researchers by comparing their preferences with those of general workers. Here, regional living environment is represented by a function of two attributes: regional labor market conditions and living environments. The paper shows that regional living environments have a more decisive impact on the migration of researchers, relative to general workers. Also, researchers are found to be slightly more sensitive to regional living environments especially crime than regional labor market conditions. Finally, the paper suggests a policy direction for balanced development among regions in Korea based on the results obtained.
2019	Owner-managers and firm performance during the asian and global financial crises: evidence from KoreaWe examine the performance of the Korean owner-managers during the 1997?1998 Asian financial crisis and the 2008?2009 global financial crisis to establish whether they overcome the unexpected exterior shocks better than employed managers. We find that the owner-managers record a significantly greater performance during the crises, and especially during the latter period. Moreover, our results suggest that such a tendency comes from the owner-managers’ superior investment decisions. Our paper thus highlights the role of owner-managers by studying their performance during the Korean economic crisis periods. (JEL G01, G32, G34).
2019	Moderating effects of legitimacy on the liability- and R&amp;D investment-innovation relationships in manufacturing SMEsThis study investigates the moderating effects of legitimacy on the liability- and R&D investment-innovation relationships in manufacturing small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Examining 2659 firms in South Korea, this study demonstrates that organizational legitimacy has not only the direct effect on innovation performance but also moderating effects on the relationship between liability and R&D expenditure and innovation performance. The present research provides evidence that normative legitimacy alleviates the adverse effects of liability on new product launches and the innovative sales revenue. Further, normative legitimacy weakens the relationship between R&D investment and innovation, whereas cognitive legitimacy can aggravate the adverse effects of liability but enhance the positive effects of R&D expenditure on the innovative sales revenue. The analysis presented in this study also demonstrates that the anti-synergistic interactions between regulatory, normative, and cognitive legitimacy can hinder the overall positive effects on innovation performance. This study extends the literature on legitimacy in the context of innovation by exhibiting that the strategic dilemma of SMEs regarding innovation can be a serious concern because of the conflicting roles of legitimacy on the liability-innovation and R&D invest-innovation relationship.
2019	Unintended Consequences of Well-Intentioned Policies of South Korea: Lessons for Emerging Economies on Capital Market LiberalisationWhile South Korea has achieved remarkable economic and democratic transformation during the past decades, it has suffered from two major economic crises, both of which are essentially liquidity crises. In this regard, the purpose of this study is twofold: one is to review the debates on capital market liberalisation and highlight the dark sides of South Korea’s experience. The other is to explain why South Korea has experienced another crisis in 2008 even though it already experienced the same liquidity crisis in 1997. We highlight the unintended consequences of policies with their own legitimate purposes and provide lessons on capital market liberalisation for emerging economies.
2019	Transforming into Fashion Firms or Multi-Country Suppliers? Accounting for Varied Firm Trajectories in the Deindustrialising Korean Apparel IndustryThis paper compares across two groups of Korean garment firms’ varied development and patterns of integration into the global economy in the deindustrialising Korean apparel industry. Although each group, both with histories as export suppliers, developed into fashion lead-firms or multi-country suppliers, current literature on firm upgrading provides little help in explaining the varied post-industrial trajectories of these firms. This paper bridges global value chains/global production networks (GVC/GPN) literature with institutionalist literature to highlight the importance of differential market embeddedness and organising logics in patterning how firms respond to changing global conditions.
2019	Cyclical and structural aspects of the recent export trends: Evidence from KoreaPurpose - This paper investigates the recent trade collapse, recovery, and prolonged slowdown to shed light on the discussions about whether the current slowdown is structural or cyclical. I examine structural, cyclical, and heterogeneous aspects of the recent trade trends using detailed statistics of a small open economy, South Korea, whose economic success and growth have been heavily dependent on exports. Design/methodology - I use both aggregated and disaggregated trade statistics of South Korea. I apply the following methodologies: 1) I decompose the trade growth into the extensive and the intensive margin and observe the effect of prices over time. 2) I estimate the trade-income elasticities focusing on the world’s import demand, separately for goods from the world and from Korea. 3) I compare the drop in goods exports in slowdown and trade collapse, which are the two unusual periods in the recent history when world trade has substantially dropped altogether. Findings - I show that while the last drop of trade after 2015 has cyclical aspects, there is evidence that the continued slowdown from 2012 is structural: 1) the so-called ‘China factor’ is found in the analysis of trade-income elasticity of the world and China for imports from Korea. 2) The bilateral trade barriers between Korea and its principal trading partners are universally tightening. 3) Firm sizes, destination countries, and the mode of transactions affect disaggregated trade flows during the slowdown periods. Originality/value - This paper contributes to the debate regarding whether the current trade slowdown is structural or cyclical. I provide two concrete evidence that the export drop in 2015 stems from low oil prices: one is the divergence of Korean export value index from its export quantity index, which started in late 2014 when oil prices plunged. I also contribute to the literature by providing evidence that Korea’s trade barriers with important trading partners are steadily increasing since 2012 as the protectionist measures toward Korea’s export products are steeply increasing after the global financial crisis.
2019	How the FTA’s utilization in contract for the international sale of goods of Korea’s companies affects their export performancePurpose - This paper aims to articulate relationship about factors influencing FTA utilization by dividing them into company’s external and internal factors and performing investigation on the relationship between FTA utilization and export performance. Design/methodology - This study verified factors influencing FTA utilization by dividing them into company’s external and internal factors and performing investigation on the relationship between FTA utilization and export performance. Empirical analysis was performed by setting internal and external factors required for FTA utilization as variables. To achieve this, research model was established based on previous study, hypothesis was deduced, and statistical program were used to test the hypothesis. This study performed empirical analysis using statistical program of SPSS 18.0 and AMOS 18.0 for the research model. Findings - Empirical analysis was performed regarding the effect of the FTA utilization on export performance and previous study defined export performance as the company’s increased economy benefits through export and increase in new transactions. Analysis was also performed for factors affecting the FTA utilization by the company and through management and response of external factors and internal factors it was confirmed that the FTA utilization by the company led to increase in the company’s export performance as a result. This study proposes a method to achieve export performance based on this. Originality/value - Companies seeking to utilize the FTA sign the Contract for the International Sale of goods and there are many conditions to meet in order to receive trade preferences during the transaction process. Existing trade order and order in the FTA have to be followed. Country of origin can be seen as key in the FTA. The Rule of Origin becomes the most important evaluation standard in applying preferential tariff in the FTA. Such regulations can be seen as external factors which cannot be controlled by the company. Internal factors are capabilities owned before that can be controlled by the company. The study sought to test the variables regarding factors centered on such capability. This study verified factors influencing FTA utilization by dividing them into company’s external and internal factors and performing investigation on the relationship between FTA utilization and export performance.
2019	Capital outflow waves in the Korean economy during financial turmoil: Its implications and policy suggestionsPurpose - This paper investigates whether financial crises could be the indicators of capital outflow waves or vice versa in Korea. Korea has experienced two severe financial crises, which are the Asian Crisis and the global financial crisis. Although there were many variables associated with these two remarkable events, one notable variable was gross capital outflows, which had significantly increased around them. Motivated by existing literature which built theoretical frameworks explaining the relationship between capital flight and financial crises, we examine the empirical evidence for this relationship. Design/methodology - We use panel data from 61 countries including Korea from 1980 to 2009 to study the associations between capital flight and diverse financial crises such as banking, currency, debt, and inflation crises. To be specific, we use the complementary log-log model to see whether capital outflow waves are reliable indicators for domestic financial crises. Findings - The results show, first, that banking, currency, and inflation crises are associated with capital flight. Second, debt crises are also associated with capital flight, but the result is not robust to different specifications. And, third, the positive associations between capital flight and crises are mainly driven by banking flows rather than FDI and portfolio flows. Originality/value - This paper is one of a few studies that investigates domestic (not foreign) investors’ behavior during financial turmoil. Furthermore, theoretical studies which provide contradictory explanations on the movements of gross capital outflows during financial crises emphasizes the importance of empirical evidence in this paper.
2019	A study on the possibility of E-government procurement in ChinaPurpose - This paper aims to study what is impacting the development of e-Government Procurement in China, the current strategies of developing Chinese Governmental e-Procurement, and to present some measures by which Korea’s exporting industry could enter the Chinese procurement market. Design/methodology - This study is to provide a systematic literatures review on what is impacting the development of e-Government Procurement in China. Hence, based on western research, Chinese literiatures are used for this study. Findings - To penetrate the e-procurement of the Chinese government, the acquisition of government procurement certification is necessary. Secondly, the qualification of “Made in China” is one way to join the market. And finally for Korean companies to enter the procurement, it is necessary to provide products to the public institutions such as universities, hospitals and social organizations and to the state-owned enterprises. Originality/value - This paper aims to study what is impacting the development of the e-Government Procurement in China, the current strategies of developing Chinese Governmental e-Procurements, and to present some measures by which Korea’s exporting industry could enter the Chinese procurement market. These originalities can be expected to give understanding of Chinese e-govenment procurement and insight for strategy for both Korean enterprise and relavant academic circles.
2019	The effect of service convenience and mobile apps on consumer re-use in the service trade market: A focus on china medical touristPurpose - This study focused on the effect of mobile app information system quality on re-use intention in the medical service trade, and examined how the Chinese, currently the main consumer of Korea’s medical service trade, obtained information through mobile apps, and the status of satisfaction felt by experiencing medical services. Design/methodology - The survey period was from November 2018 to January 2019, and was conducted on Chinese who voluntarily experienced medical services. The collected data verified causality of the study model through the statistical program, SPSS.24. The results showed that the most popular medical institution through the medical service mobile app is dermatology, and the quality of the app’s information system plays a mediating role in influencing re-use intention. Findings - Overall, the current trade in medical services is first accessed and acquired through mobile apps, and as a result, consumers revisit medical institutions according to the reliability of information. Comments and likes, another new form of the word of mouth that has greatly influenced revisiting in the past, are seen to be spreading through the app’s medical information. Originality/value - The previous market for the medical services trade was formed by very conservative word of mouth, but now we believe that the app’s information system actively influences the revisit effect. This means that apps can be used in diverse areas in the medical service trade market. In addition, the medical service market needs to further develop a mobile app environment that can reflect consumers’ diverse needs, behaviors, and culture from time to time in order to revitalize the service trade. Such an app environment development will have tremendous promotional effects on the trade market and provide directions for expanding trade in medical services.
2019	Does the China-Korea free trade area promote the green total factor productivity of China’s manufacturing industry?Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to analyze the net effect of the green total factor productivity (GTFP) of China’s manufacturing industry from the China-Korea Free Trade Area (China-Korea FTA) quantitatively. Design/methodology - Firstly, the Global Malmquist-Luenberger (GML) index based on the SBM directional distance function is used to measure the GTFP of China’s manufacturing and analyze the driving force for its growth. Secondly, the regression discontinuity quantitative analysis is used to determine the impact of the China-Korea FTA on China’s manufacturing GTFP. Findings - Our main findings can be summarized as follows: the China-Korea FTA has promoted the GTFP of China’s manufacturing with an effect evaluation mainly resulting from green technology progress. And there is industry heterogeneity in the policy effect on the manufacturing GTFP due to the China-Korea FTA. Namely, policy promotion from the China-Korea FTA is more effective on the GTFP of equipment manufacturing than it is on those of other industries. Originality/value - First, an evaluation and analysis of the GTFP development of China’s manufacturing that employs GML index based on SBM directional distance function. Second, a quantitative estimate of China-Korea FTA’s net effect on China’s manufacturing industrial GTFP that uses regression discontinuity analysis, which is considered to be the closest method to natural experiments and superior to other causal inference methods. Third, an in-depth discussion of the practical steps that China’s manufacturing can take to improve GTFP development and integrate China-Korea FTA construction into economic development.
2019	Comparing national innovation system among the USA, Japan, and Finland to improve Korean deliberation organization for national science and technology policyAs the Korean government expands the budget for national research and development, the need for an institute that deliberates, coordinates, and operates research development and its budget has increased. In response to these demands, the National Science and Technology Council (NSTC) was recently established. However, to achieve a creative economy, which is the economic system where value is based on novel imaginative qualities rather than the traditional resources of land, labor, and capital, more efficiently, fundamental research regarding the current state of the Korean national administration system of science and technology in Korea is required. Accordingly, this study first analyzes the function and organizational structure of the NSTC in Korea. Second, it investigates the current state of the NSTC in other countries. Finally, the study derives several implications for improving NSTC operation based on the benchmarking study and suggests an operational improvement plan for NSTC with respect to enhancement of function, operation of organization, human resource management, and improvement of the relationships between other departments. The study contributes to analyze the current state of the NSTC in Korea and science and technology (S&T) Councils in other major countries, systematically and in detail. In addition, based on benchmarking study, this study derived operational improvement of NSTC in Korea with four perspectives, including enhancement of function, operation of organization, human resource management, and improvement of the relationships between other departments.
2019	Customer happiness and open innovation in the esthetics education for the elderly generationIn Korean society, where aging is rapidly progressing, the happiness of the elderly is no longer an economic issue. An esthetics program has the effect of improving depression or low self-esteem to increase psychological and physical satisfaction, which is a good way to raise the happiness index of the elderly. However, there is a lack of esthetics education or esthetics programs in Korea to train estheticians to serve elderly people. This study confirmed the possibility of open innovation through esthetics education to increase the happiness index of the elderly. As a research method, a self-administered questionnaire was used to survey 572 estheticians and analyzed statistically. In this study, Korean estheticians were very positive about the need for the development of professional care programs for the elderly, and it was found that they are willing to care for the elderly. Developing a variety of esthetic programs through the training of professional manpower for the elderly in the future will contribute to enhancing the happiness index of elderly Korean people.
2019	New trade restrictive measures and exports: Evidence from South KoreaThe world economy recently witnessed a surge in trade remedies and non-tariff measures (NTMs) as new trade-restrictive measures. This study attempts to provide empirical evidence on the effects of new trade-restrictive measures, such as antidumping, countervailing measures, technical barriers to trade, and sanitary and phytosanitary measures on trade. By using the Korean product-level export data and the new NTM data, we find that new trade-restrictive measures in trade can depend on the affected sectors and imposing countries. Exports can be adversely affected by new trade-restrictive measures in their concentrated sectors taken by importing developed countries. We also find the threatening effects of trade remedy before this investigation. However, new trade-restrictive measures imposed by importing developing countries can have positive impact on trade, particularly an increase in consumers' trust in product quality and decrease in asymmetric information. Results imply that the government of an exporting party should enhance trade policies by considering the heterogeneous effects of new trade-restrictive measures across industries and trading partners.
2019	Caught-In Or Breaking-Free From The Middle Income Trap: The case of MalaysiaMalaysia is among the developing economies that has shown relative promise in breaking its middle income trap (MIT). However, the lack of sophistication of institutions for industrial upgrade and the attainment of productive routines means that many local firms remain self-organized and suffer from the absence of complementarities. This study seeks to understand Malaysia's position on MIT and compare the country's current trajectory against newly industrialized economies (e.g., South Korea and Taiwan). This study focuses on five explorations that depict Malaysia's performance position in achieving developed status: (1) income and foreign direct investment, (2) economic structure, (3) upgrading, (4) social capital, and (5) education. This study argues that the key barriers that prevent Malaysia from exiting MIT stem from the lack of effective measures in terms of social capital to improve education and institutions. Thus, the development of productive routines with instituted inclusive measures to accelerate the upgrading process is crucial to break MIT.
2019	Can Turkey escape from the middle-income trap? What has been done? What can be Done? Lessons from South KoreaTurkey has been a middle-income country for nearly half a century. Unlike Turkey, South Korea has managed to rapidly grow and become a high-income country. The success of South Korea may be an inspiration for many developing countries that cannot move from the middle-income trap, such as Turkey. This qualitative study focuses on the dynamics of development in both countries. Population, education, foreign trade, and R&D policies since 1953 are examined. Lessons from South Korea show that upgrading exports from low and middle tech to high tech is crucial for economic development.
2019	Globalization and the scrambling process of catching up in MexicoIn the last 50 years, Mexico's manufacturing growth has been fostered, although its competitiveness has relied on the low wage paradigm. In this article, the country's immersion in globalization is analyzed, thereby departing from the effects derived by the oil crisis that forced the country to leave the trap of natural resources to generate productive value chains through the economic opening boosted by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and subsequently, by the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). Such economic opening allowed the development of global value chains through original equipment manufacturing in the automotive, electronics, pharmaceutical, and medical devices industries. However, this process has been characterized by low investment coefficients and scarce innovation compared with Korea, Malaysia and China, due to the lack of an institutional framework that could have promoted innovation to allow the country to overcome the middle-income trap.
2019	Latin America: Is a spurt in development possible?The so-called “golden decade” (2003?2013) in Latin America, marked by relatively high GDP growth, a buildup of foreign trade volume, expanding domestic market and rising living standards, rapidly became history thanks to years of recession, sluggish growth and deterioration of economic conditions for the majority of the population. After the failures of neo-liberal experiments of 1990s, the populist projects that established the matrix of social development in Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela, Nicaragua, Ecuador and other countries of the region in the first decade of the 21st century also failed. Those who ruled these regimes demonstrated incompetence which caused an economic stupor and a serious social trauma to people of the Latin American republics. To these negative phenomena there should be added the domestic political turmoil, particularly, loud corruption scandals and the removal of acting heads of State from power, as well as increased foreign competition in the region. In addition, on the outer perimeter, the complexity of the situation is compounded by the fact that Latin America (with a few exceptions confirming the rule) has not been able to receive a maximum dividend from the globalization process, as China, India, the Republic of Korea, South-East Asia and some European States did, but fully suffered the shock of external effects: drops of prices on world commodity and food markets, financial disasters, consequences of “trade wars”. For nearly two decades, Latin America has been living under conditions of structural crisis of varying intensity, the essence of which is characterized not only by strong fluctuations in the rate of GDP growth and sharp changes on commodity and financial markets, but also by a deep transformation that has engulfed the economy, politics, social sphere and the scope of external relations of the regional countries. However, the process of these changes is not of a steady character, is marked by bends and intermittent periods of stagnation, weakening the region’s position in the global economy. In an effort to reverse this situation and take the path of steady growth, the search for opportunities to give an impetus to the socio-economic development has intensified in Latin America.
2019	How resources of universities influence industry cooperationIn Korea, cooperation between university and company is mainly encouraged by government policy as the Triple Helix's statist model. Since 2003, the government started a variety of university financial support program, and in 2014, it reached to the point that 31 ministries conducted 408 programs in total. Most projects focused on training human resources and supporting Research and development, which is considered as the core function of universities, but some of the projects are designed to support the industry-academia cooperation. For instance, the Ministry of Education ran 'Leaders in University and Industry Cooperation (LINC)' program. LINC is a follow-up project of Human Resources Development for the Leading Industries, Industry-Academia Cooperation-oriented University, and Focal Point Research program. Accordingly, it aimed to create university-industry cooperative models, and nurture talents based on regional economy's demand. The program provided approximately $230M per year for over 50 universities across the country. It was one of the highly influential grant programs considering the fact that there are about 200 universities nationwide and an annual budget of university is $900 billion on average. In this context, this study is to assess the influence of resources of universities capacity on the achievement of university-industry cooperation and explore whether a government-initiated policy has a significant effect using data from government information disclosure system on education.
2019	Operational-efficiency improvement of public R and D management agencies in South KoreaPublic R and D management agencies have been taking on key roles in the national R and D ecosystem. The purpose of this study is to suggest ways to improve the operational efficiency of public R and D management agencies based on analysis of their current status. We approached this study from a life-cycle perspective as it applies to the plan-management evaluation of R and D. Data-collection sources included documents, surveys, and interviews with staff members in agencies responsible for national R and D management. Based on the analysis results, we present suggestions for improvement in three areas: (a) unification of R and D planning and evaluation of individual ministries; (b) establishment of a panministerial management system for public R and D management agencies; (c) improvement and development of public R and D agencies' expertise and management services. Finally, we discuss possible improvements and the limits of this study.
2019	Russian-Chinese strategic partnership and North Korean nuclear and missile issueThe Democratic Peoples' Republic of Korea is not going to discuss its nuclear program and is seeking recognition of its de-facto nuclear status. Given that both Russia and China are two responsible nuclear powers, Russian and Chinese positions on the issue are absolutely similar - nuclear North Korea is unacceptable. In terms of security, the DPRK which poses nuclear arsenal should be seen as a threat to the territories of both countries. Nevertheless, Moscow does not fully assess the security risks from Pyongyang because Northeast Asia issues are not in the Russia's foreign policy focus. The lack of economic interests in the DPRK and the deterioration of U.S. - Russian relations also have a significant impact on the formation of Russia's policy in the North Korean direction. China, in its turn, considers the following security risks from Pyongyang's activities. First of all, it is a threat of radiation to the northeast of China in the case of next nuclear test. The second one is a possibility of political-military destabilizing in North-East Asia. And finally, it is the deteriorating of U.S. - Chinese relations, which will negatively affect both the Chinese economy and China's plans to become a world leadership. With regard to the Korean peninsula, in the near future, the positions of Russia and China will increasingly diverge. On this issue, unlike Moscow, Beijing will combine sanctions and pressure tools, as well as opportunities for dialogue with Pyongyang. China's unwillingness to cooperate actively within the framework of the fiveparty talks (China, Russia, the United States, South Korea and Japan without the DPRK) is only expanding the field for maneuvering for the North Korean regime. The disarmament of North Korea should be considered as an opportunity for cooperation between the five abovementioned countries whose security interests in North-East Asia are converged.
2019	Arctic and development of far eastern cluster of Russian shipbuildingSuccessful implementation of the majority of Russian projects in the Arctic requires a great number of ice-class vessels that are able to operate freely in the Arctic Ocean. Over the last couple of years Russian companies placed a large amount of orders for building vessels, which meet the requirements of the IMO Polar Code, on foreign shipyards. The fact exemplifies that at the moment Russia does not have enough ice-class vessels to expand its economic activity in the region. This article is devoted to the study of the development of civil shipbuilding in Russia. The author will consider the ongoing project of "Zvezda" shipbuilding complex that is to be realized in the Russian Far East. The paper provides comprehensive analysis of the main problems that threaten successful implementation of the project. One of them is that today "Zvezda" shipyard does not have enough commercial orders that prevents it from starting serial production of vessels and equipment for them. Author suggests that this problem cannot be solved without regulatory measures of the Russian Government. Another problem is that the Far Eastern shipbuilding complex lacks necessary technological experience in constructing sophisticated vessels (container ships, LNG-tankers and offshore platforms), which are in great demand in the Arctic. Thus, to overcome this challenge "Zvezda" shipyard needs to strengthen cooperation with the top shipbuilding companies in the world. While Western powers imposed sanctions against Russia, the leadership of "Zvezda" complex was forced to seek its partners in the Asia Pacific Region. As a result, today "Zvezda" shipyard in close cooperation with companies from China, the Republic of Korea and Singapore has established a number of joint ventures in the Russian Far East that will provide it with necessary technologies in short-term perspective. However, the import of foreign technologies makes products of the Russian shipbuilding complex more expensive and less competitive. From the author's point of view, to solve that problem "Zvezda" should increase research and development expenditures, and its primary task for a long-term perspective should be to replace foreign technologies with domestic ones.
2019	Port performance in container transport logistics: A multi-stakeholder perspectiveThis study proposes a measurement instrument for port performance in the context of container transport logistics (CTLs) by taking perspectives from different port stakeholders. An importance-performance analysis (IPA) is used to develop an analytical tool for investigating the importance and performance (IP) of major container ports in South Korea against individual CTLs criterion. The main originality of this study is the development of a measurement instrument to provide managerial and operational insights to both port managers (i.e. terminal operating companies) and policy makers (i.e. port authorities and government) for stakeholder management in CTLs. The analysis helps port managers and policy makers to converge the different objectives and concerns for better management.
2018	An economic analysis of the progressivity of income taxes using a dynamic general equilibrium modelThis paper explores the effect of the progressivity of income taxes on the distribution of income and consumption across households as well as the aggregate output in Korea. Using Korean administrative data on income and tax by income percentile, we find that the post-2012 progressivity of Korean income taxes is double the pre-2012 progressivity. By building a dynamic general equilibrium model with heterogeneous agents, we quantify the long-run effect of the increased progressivity of income taxes on Korean economy. We find that the more progressive income taxes increase the government’s tax revenue, while reducing the dispersion in income and consumption across individuals. However, the bottom decile of the income distribution is the only group that experiences a rise in consumption, while the consumption of all other income deciles is reduced. This is attributed to the large decline in the aggregate capital. Faced with the increased tax burden, high income earners reduce their savings, causing the aggregate capital and thereby output to decrease.
2018	Debt and development in historical perspective: The external constraints of late industrialisation revisited through South Korea and BrazilCurrent debates about the role of external finance in development mostly overlook the insights from early development economics that late industrialisation generates a structural tendency to run trade deficits, thereby exacerbating rather than relieving external foreign exchange constraints. The developmental role of external finance is therefore based on its strategic marginal contribution to relieve such constraints. External debt in particular also allows countries to pursue industrial strategies without reliance on foreign direct investment. These insights are revisited in this paper as a critical input to both mainstream and heterodox contemporary scholarship on debt and development. While the mainstream generally avoids discussion of state-led industrial policy, the heterodox has converged on a view that developing countries should avoid external finance. The contrasting external account histories of South Korea and Brazil are examined to demonstrate the validity of the classic insights and the contemporary fallacies. While the South Korean case speaks much to its geopolitical context, this does not necessarily refute the principle that post-war late development engenders an intensive demand for external finance, which must be met if industrialisation strategies are not to be stymied, as in the case of Brazil, no matter how effectively domestic strategies are conceived and implemented.
2018	South Korea’s Economic Course: from State Dirigisme to Liberal MonetarismThe paper aims to investigate the transformation of South Korean economy from strict state regulation to liberalization and to fill in the gap in the historical analysis of the transition from import-substitution to export-oriented economy of South Korea. The study relies on the methods of comparative-historical, historical-typological, and historical-genetic analysis to consider the evolution of South Korean economic system, the change in economic development model, and the transition to a new economic strategy. The study also implies the use of interdisciplinary methods to systematize the empirical material, applying political-geographic, economic, and complex approaches. The paper gives periodization of South Korean economic development and investigates the reasons of country’s successful modernization and transition to export-oriented economy. Large corporations began to emerge in South Korea in the mid-1960s due to the active support from the state. They established the production of steel, marine vessels, automobiles, and electronic devices. The well thought-out government program brought notable success by the late 1990s, and South Korea gained the developed industrial base and powerful export potential. The afflux of foreign investments and the competitiveness of Korean products were mostly provided by low wages, traditional diligence, and Confucian education. Since the Korean strategy of economic development happened to be successful, there is a need for examining the experience of modernization as it can be useful for developing countries.
2018	Entrepreneurial cyclical dynamics of open innovationThis study addresses the following matters: What is the structure and mechanism of modern capital economic dynamics that motivates the growth limits of capitalism? The modern economy can be modeled as Entrepreneurial Cyclical Dynamics of Open Innovation with three sub-economies such as market open innovation by SMEs and start-ups, closed open innovation by big business, and social open innovation. When there is low balance among the three sub-economies, which is to say, if any of the sub-economies is too big, or too small, the economy dynamics decreases, and the economic growth rate slows down to nearly zero or even negative according to the model simulation. South Korea, with a low internal reserve policy, is in this situation. When there is medium balance among three sub-economies, which is to say, any of the sub-economies is big enough to lead the total economy but is not sufficiently big to control totally the other two economies, the economy dynamics increases and the economic growth rate will be maintained at a high level according to the model simulation. India, with its grassroots innovation festival, demonstrates this situation. When there is a high balance among the three sub-economies, which is to say, the three sub-economies are well balanced and there is no change in the economic system, the economy dynamics become too low and the economic growth rate stays at a low level according to the model simulation. Japan’s Hitachi is moving from this situation to a medium balance.
2018	Correlation Between Transmission Power and Some Indicators Used to Measure the Knowledge-Based Economy: Case of Six OECD CountriesIn this paper, we study the correlation between the transmission power and some indicators used to measure the knowledge-based economy. For the case study, we select six OECD countries (USA, Canada, France, Germany, Japan and South Korea) and six indicators (gross domestic expenditure for research and development (GERD), number of researchers, gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate, GDP per capita, Human Development Index (HDI) and total factor productivity ). The time series of the transmission power over a 10-year period (2001?2010) are built on the basis of publication data collected from the Web of Science. The correlation between transmission power and the selected indicators is computed. Results show that Japan and South Korea exhibit a positive strong correlation between transmission power and GERD on one hand and transmission power and number of researchers on the other hand. These two countries have the same pattern as regarding the transmission power and each of the selected indicators; other countries do not show any comparable pattern. The study concludes that the transmission power computed at national level only is not sufficient to measure the extent to which an economy is knowledge-based, because it does not take into account the synergy contributed at international level by a nation innovation actor.
2018	Services in global value chains ? the cases of Taiwan and KoreaPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to explore the value added of exports of services, which increasingly involve intermediate inputs to manufacturing and are indirectly embodied in intermediate and finished good exports to the global market earned by Taiwan and South Korea. Design/methodology/approach: This paper uses the World Input-Output Database to examine and compare the competitiveness of service industry between Taiwan and South Korea in China from 1995 to 2011. The author measures the value added of export in two ways: value added in trade (VAiT) and trade in value added (TiVA). Findings: The proportion of domestic (intermediate and final demand) VAiT was created by Taiwanese and South Korean exports to China. The services amount share of value added embodied in Taiwanese electrical and optical equipment (ELE) exports to China increased gradually (38.0?45.7 percent) from 1996 to 2011, that was more than that of South Korea (26.7?23.3 percent). Taiwanese financial and business (F&B) service contributed to Taiwanese ELE production exported to China. In service sectors, the proportion of VAiT of Taiwanese F&B service embodied in ELE exports to China increased annually (9.8?11.5 percent), that was similar to that of South Korea (12.2?11.3 percent). Thus, F&B sector played an increasingly important role in service sectors. Taiwanese F&B promotes the ELE export to China with higher efficiency than South Korea does. Originality/value: Over the past two decades, the development of information technology and the growth of international specialization and fragmentation of production processes have brought about a global value chains (GVCs) phenomenon in services, which has already been taking place in manufacturing for a long time. Intangible value added of services increasingly involved intermediate inputs from manufacturing and were indirectly embodied in intermediate and finished goods exported to the global market. The focus of this paper is to analyze how the service industry participates in the development of the GVC, with emphasis on the export of ELE production to China in the bilateral trade of Taiwan and Korea with China. In addition to the value-added components, the exports of F&B intermediate products to China have been increasing year by year, and Taiwanese is higher than South Korean. In the bilateral trade between Taiwan or Korea and China, for ELE production exported to China, double counted part of intermediate products is increasing year by year. In terms of the value added of the double counting of F&B exports to China, Taiwan is higher (PDC, 31.23?17.26 percent) than South Korea. (PDC, 8.7?15.12 percent). South Korea and China are not as closely related as Taiwan and China.
2018	Exploring perceptions of sustainable development in South Korea: An approach based on advocacy coalition framework's belief systemThe concept of sustainable development has been criticized for its broadness and ambiguity that permits different interpretations in separate views. However, the prior studies on sustainable development generally relied on survey data, so they have some limitations that preclude congruent conclusions. In contrast to prior studies, we used Q methodology, which is designed to investigate subjective perceptions as it is. This study aims to explore the South Koreans' perceptions of sustainable development among various stakeholders such as experts, bureaucrats, legislatures, civic groupmembers, company employees, and journalists. Based on the hierarchical belief system of the advocacy coalition framework, we classified all statements into three categories: core value, policy core, and secondary aspects. Using Q methodology, we extracted five types: (1) democrat; (2) idealist; (3) green growth advocate; (4) skeptics; and (5) elitist. We examined the distribution of the five types according to a hierarchical belief system, and discussed implications of the findings.
2018	Are there spillover effects of large firms’ growth in supply chain networks? Evidence from the Korean economyPrevious literature has found that inter-firm cooperation leads to higher growth rates for small and medium enterprises (SMEs). However, these studies have focused only on direct effects, such as subcontracting, rather than on spillover effects in supply chain networks (SCNs). Regarding the spillover effects, this article investigates whether a large firm’s growth leads to the growth of the directly and indirectly related SMEs in its SCN, using Korean firm-level data with the system ?Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) approach. The estimation results show that increases in the sales of large firms significantly affect the growth rates of the related SMEs. These effects, however, diminish as the relationship with the large firm goes down from the first vendor to the second vendor and from the second vendor to the third vendor. In the case of Korea, when a large firm grows by 1%, the first vendor grows by 0.38?0.44%, but the growth rates of the second and third vendors are only 0.036?0.047% and 0.003?0.005%, respectively. Thus, while there are spillover effects, the effects are weak. We discuss what these findings mean for national economic growth.
2018	Chinese policy uncertainty shocks and the world macroeconomy: Evidence from STVARHow far could a rise in uncertainty affecting China be transmitted to other economies? This paper investigates the possible spillovers from a shock to Chinese Economic Policy Uncertainty (EPU) to developed (the United States, the Euro Area, Japan and South Korea) and emerging economies (Brazil and Russia). To take into account the non-linear nature of uncertainty shocks, we estimate a Smooth-Transition Vector Auto-Regressive (STVAR) model differentiating phases of expansion and phases of recession. We find important asymmetries in the responses to Chinese uncertainty shocks of macro-variables especially for the United States (US), the Euro Area (EA) and South Korea. Indeed, these countries display almost no response to the identified shock during booms. However, when hit in downturns, they suffer from a fall in industrial production, inflation and exports together with an increase in unemployment (except for Korea). Emerging countries (Brazil and Russia) stand out in the extent to which they significantly respond to the Chinese shock in both identified regimes. Lastly, the Japanese economy seems to be less sensitive to the Chinese shock.
2018	The socio-economic benefits of sharing economy: Colleague-based carpooling service in KoreaCarpooling-a concept of shared transportation for addressing traffic issues such as congestion and CO2 emissions-has been actively introduced, especially in developed countries. This study proposes a method to estimate the benefits of introducing carpooling for employees in public agencies that are transferring innovation cities. To overcome the shortcomings of previous carpooling services, a carpooling service for inter-company employees was designed and evaluated in our study. The traffic flow theory was used to estimate the direct benefits to carpooling users and the indirect benefits to express highway drivers. The results indicate that carpooling services have a significant socio-economic cost-saving effect on traffic congestion, environmental cost reduction, and so forth, and will therefore play an important role in traffic demand management.
2018	The Evaluation of Impacts of Knowledge-Based Economy Factors on the Improvement of Total Factor Productivity (a Comparative Study of Emerging and G7 Economies)This essay evaluates the impacts of knowledge-based economy factors on the total factor productivity  of emerging economies (the countries known as emerging economies are Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Korea, South Africa, and Singapore) and compares them with G7 economies using panel data analysis during 1996?2013. The results indicate that the ratio of ICT capital stock to GDP and the ratio of foreign R&D capital stock to GDP have the greatest positive impact on TFP, respectively, in emerging economies. But the ratio of domestic R&D capital stock to GDP and the ratio of education costs to GDP in emerging economies comparing to the developed countries of G7 have a less influential impact on TFP. However, in these countries, we see the positive effect of foreign R&D stock through the acquisition of commercial partners’ technologies via imports and customizing them according to local needs and using this factor beside domestic R&D activities which provides a proper atmosphere for improvement of TFP and approaching a knowledge-based economy.
2018	The Possibility of Building a Peaceful Regime on the Korean Peninsula Via Multilateral ApproachesMultilateral approaches such as the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organization, the Four-Party and Six-Party Talks, and the Trilateral Coordination and Oversight Group (established by the USA, Japan, and South Korea to solve North Korea’s issues and to build a peaceful regime on the Korean Peninsula) have achieved few accomplishments since the Cold War. Exceptions include the avoidance of deadly clashes during ongoing multilateral talks at the time of serious situations including the nuclear crisis in 1994 and the Bush administration’s attempt to strike on North Korea with nuclear weapons. The USA has hesitated to conduct kind military relationships with North Korea because they seem to strongly recognize the high risk associated with physical conflict. Additionally, the USA and its allies have experienced North Korea’s ability with nuclear weapons. Many which have attempted to target the USA during the later years of the Clinton and Bush administrations. Dealing with North Korea contributes to the knowledge of those involved in the Six-Party Talks regarding how to work with the USA and others. Are multilateral approaches still efficient under this situation? Even with a number of several types of proposals such as China’s recent dual-track approach or double suspension approach?also backed by Russia?there seems to be no certain attempt to collaborate on building a peaceful regime. This paper will examine why multilateral approaches to building a peaceful regime post Cold War on the Korean Peninsula have forwarded little to a contextual perspective of the changing regional circumstances.
2018	South Korea's Transition from Imitator to Innovator: The Role of External Demand ShocksSouth Korean manufacturing firms have rapidly increased research and development  expenditure and the number of patent applications since the 1980s. This paper empirically argues that the increase in external market demand resulting from exchange rate changes had significant impacts on R&D expenditure of manufacturing firms in South Korea. Empirical analyses using South Korean firm-level panel data from 1981 to 1995 show that the exchange rate change was a significant driver of increased R&D expenditure. The South Korean firms whose exporting goods were similar to those produced in Japan were more sensitive to the exchange rate changes (especially Japanese yen's appreciation) than the firms whose exporting goods were less similar to Japanese exports. The result suggests a causal relationship between external demand and R&D expenditure.
2018	The efficiency analysis of national R &amp; D planning for the field of precision medicine in KoreaPrecision medicine has received a lot of attention in recent years and we have not yet found any research cases that apply Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) to investment decision making in this area. The purpose of this study is to analyze the relative efficiency of candidate technology sectors in order to determine priorities for government investment in precision medicine. The results of the efficiency analysis can be used as an important reference for government policy makers to determine the amount of government investment in the next year for each candidate technology sector. The candidate technology for government investment in precision medicine was decided for 23 sectors based on the data analysis and the opinions of expert committees. This study applies the input-oriented DEA in regard to 23 technology sectors, which is widely used to analyze relative efficiency in terms of inputs versus outputs and to enhance efficiency through the propositional reduction of inputs. The input variables include the government's research and development (R & D) investment and forward and backward industry linkage effects. The output variables are the employment creation effect, value-added effect, number of Korean patents, and number of Korean papers. Our analysis results show that the 23 technology sectors in precision medicine overall have a high efficiency, with the exception of the biobank technology sector. Therefore, since the Biobank technology sector has strong infrastructure characteristics, it seems to require continuous investment. The efficiency of DEA is high in most precision medicine sectors; therefore, overall, investing in these technologies is expected to yield good benefits.
2018	Decomposing Labor Share Movements in a Small Open Economy: The Case of KoreaSmall open economies import substantial amounts of materials from abroad, the prices of which are determined in international markets. This paper presents a theoretical model that shows the potential determinants of the labor share in such economies, and, as a case study, decomposes labor share movements in Korea using a structural VAR. The VAR estimates the effect of materials price changes on the labor share as well as the effect of other potential factors. It is found that a rise in materials prices lowers the labor share; the short-run contribution of materials price fluctuations to labor share movements can be quite large whereas their long-run contribution is modest.
2018	Monitoring Role of Venture Capital in the Initial Public Offerings: Evidence from KoreaBecause the government has initiated the development of venture capital firms in Korea, independent venture capital firms have been significantly influenced by government regulations and interventions; in contrast, corporations have made venture investments internally to avoid the regulations. This study investigates whether the Korean institutional environment harms the monitoring role of independent venture capital firms, while it does not significantly impact corporate venture capital firms. In an IPO setting, we find that earnings management (long-term performance) significantly decreases (increases) with the ownership of corporate venture capital firms. However, we do not find a significant relation between the ownership of independent venture capital firms and earnings management or long-term performance. The results suggest that Korean independent venture capital firms do not play a role in monitoring their investee companies; in contrast, corporate venture capital firms play a monitoring role.
2018	A geographic assessment of the economic development impact of Korean high-speed rail stationsAs part of the balanced-development strategy, the Korean high-speed rail system?Korean Train eXpress (KTX)?is expected to serve not only as the next-generation intercity transit system, but also to have effects on regional development. With increased accessibility, HSR station locations have the potential to act as transport nodes as well as evolving as localized urban places by attracting higher-volume passenger flow and increasing economic activity. This paper evaluates the performance of KTX stations as an economic development strategy using the node-place concept, which simultaneously assesses a station's role as node and place. The calculated scores from the node-place index suggest various outcomes of KTX stations. While balanced stations are performing as both nodes and places and are located in urban centers, imbalanced stations that perform neither role well are found on urban peripheries. Our findings indicate imbalanced stations are less effective for attracting passengers and other economic activities. HSR station vitality is depends on interactions with existing urbanized areas, and those located in urban peripheries typically lack this. Station proximity to central business districts is an important consideration for locating future KTX stations in either mid-size cities or suburban areas, in order to maximize the economic impacts of KTX services.
2018	Economic Development and South Korea’s UN PKO ParticipationIn this paper, we develop a theory on how economic development in South Korea has reshaped its foreign policy and examine the rising middle power’s personnel contributions to the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping operations (PKOs) using a supply-side rational choice model. Not only do the results reaffirm economic development as the fundamental driving force of South Korea’s growing contributions to UN PKOs, a handful of factors that influence South Korea’s decision on UN PKO participation were also discovered. This study highlights an important approach to bridge our knowledge of the global peacekeeping endeavors and individual countries’ self-interested calculation.
2018	The effects of Paris agreements on Korean economy and trade analyzed by the computational general equilibrium method considering firm’s heterogeneityPurpose: During the Paris Convention, Korean Government made commitment to curb carbon emission by 37 percent by the year of 2030. Since then there has been constant debate, both in media and academia, as to whether attempts to reduce carbon emission would spell the concomitant economic slowdown. The purpose of this paper is to build a Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model to see the effects of emission decrease on Korea economy. Design/methodology/approach: To answer the above question, we build a comprehensive framework to gauge the economic impact of Paris Convention through the lens of Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model using Armington and Melitz model. Findings: Contrary to conventional wisdom, Korea’s economic performance in terms of welfare remains robust when the carbon emission is reduced. Broadly speaking, Korea’s welfare does not contract significantly in part due to expansion at the export market. For instance, the energy intensive industry (EIT) is affected most directly from the Paris Convention commitment and yet it experiences growth in export. On the contrary, the authors find that the general economic impact on Korea’s output is negative. The additional experiment using Melitz model shows that as the carbon reduction is enforced, both the number and the average productivity of the exporting firms increase in the EIT sector, which the authors refer in the paper as the “Melitz Effect.” Practical implications: This paper shows that what can be occurred in Korean industries by emission decrease commitment. Social implications: One byproduct from restricting carbon emission is the surge in the electricity price. This is due to the fact that industries have to shift away from traditional fuels such as oil to electricity for energy. Therefore the authors propose that industrial policies aimed at balancing electricity price should accompany the plan to reduce carbon emission. Originality/value: For Korean economy, the effects of emission reduction is researched using Armington and Melitz model at the same time. Especially, this is the first research case using the Melitz model in this Korean topic.
2018	The economic impact of a rise in US trade protectionism on East AsiaPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the economic impact of a rising US trade protectionism on the economies of China, Japan, South Korea and the ASEAN countries and draw out some policy and strategic implications for the USA and East Asia. Design/methodology/approach: The authors employ a computable general equilibrium approach supplemented with qualitative analyses based on empirical evidence. Findings: An increase in US import tariffs would result in economic losses for the USA and the corresponding country or region to which the import tariff increase is applied. An increase in US import tariffs for Chinese goods alone would not have any spillover effects on other East Asian countries. But, an imposition of a border adjustment tax (BAT) for all countries and for all products would actually boost US economic growth. Advanced economies would enjoy GDP increases, but China, Korea and the ASEAN countries would face an economic loss in a longer term period, although they would enjoy some growth in the short term. However, when the BAT only applies to a specific East Asian country, USA would suffer an economic loss, with the exception of a BAT specifically targeted at the ASEAN countries. ASEAN countries would not experience any economic loss under all scenarios except in the case of import tariffs specifically targeted at ASEAN. Research limitations/implications: From the US perspective, it is beneficial to adopt a BAT for all countries and across the board. Under this arrangement, there would be an economic loss for China, Korea and the ASEAN countries in the longer term. An increase in US trade protectionism would only push the East Asian countries towards deeper economic integration, with serious implications for global pattern of trade and investment. Originality/value: The existing literature on the likely economic impact of US trade protectionism on East Asia is very scarce and based on surveys and subjective speculations. This study uses a quantitative method based on empirical evidence.
2018	Developing value added service of cold chain logistics between China and KoreaPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to elaborate value-added service of cold chain logistics between China and Korea. The covering strategy for developing the cold chain value-added service between the two countries is proposed. Design/methodology/approach: The author expounds the driving power for developing cold chain logistics between the two countries basing on the trade data of agricultural exports and imports, the tariff liberalization agreement of China?Korea FTA and the short distance between the two countries. It analyzes the value-added service of cold chain logistics with exemplary cases from four aspects (customized service, integrated service, consultation/solution and strategic alliance service), and its value-added mechanism for the enhancement of core competences of the entire cold chain. Then, by considering the drawbacks of the current cold chain logistics practices, between the two countries, the author proposes certain measures for fostering the cold chain value-added services between them. Findings: There are apparent mutual benefits in developing cold chain value-added service between the two countries, but there exists some shortcomings which impede the sound development of the cold chain logistics, such as low circulation rate and insufficient cold chain facility in China, shortage of integrated and compatible information platform between the two countries, few integrated cold chain service and strategic alliance service and occurrence of some trade frictions. Originality/value: The enforcement of China?Korea FTA will greatly reduce the tariff and increase the import and export volumes between the two countries; with the proximity between them, development of cold chain logistics between the two countries holds tremendous potential. This paper thoroughly discusses the mechanism of the value-added service of the cold chain logistics, and brings into focus the development of the value-added service in the two countries.
2018	When is blacklisting effective? Stigma, sanctions and legitimacy: the reputational and financial costs of being blacklistedBlacklisting is a policy tool that is used extensively in the international political economy, and blacklists have been invoked following the Panama Papers scandal, Russia's annexation of Crimea and the Democratic Republic of North Korea's proliferation activities. To analyse the principal mechanisms at work in what is an understudied tool of global governance, this paper compares the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s and the Financial Action Task Force's blacklisting of secrecy havens in the years 2000?2009. We show that blacklisting can be used to impose both reputational and financial costs on a state and highlight three factors that contribute to a blacklist's effectiveness: the stigma attached to the act that led to the blacklisting, the nature of any sanctions that it imposes and the blacklist's legitimacy. The blacklisting of Liechtenstein and Nauru highlight the interplay between these factors, but they also raise questions about the legitimacy of blacklisting itself.
2018	The trump-kim summit, future scenarios, and Japan’s policy toward the Korean PeninsulaOn June 12, 2018, U.S. President Donald Trump and Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (hereafter DPRK or North Korea) leader Kim Jong Un, Chairman of the State Affairs Commission, met in Singapore for the first time. The two men signed a joint declaration and pledged to work toward denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and improving bilateral relations. These developments raise several questions. What impact will this summit meeting between the two leaders have on regional security? What sorts of opportunities and risks will that impact produce for Japan? How should Japan deal with this fluid regional situation?.
2018	Portfolio Composition and Valuation Effects in Emerging Market Economies<sup>*</sup>The increase in cross-border assets and liabilities of nations with globalization, implies small asset price and currency movements create large wealth changes. The national net external position is increasingly driven by valuation effects, which the current account does not capture. We analyze valuation effects for a group of seven emerging economies, namely Brazil, Colombia, India, Republic of Korea, Mexico, Peru and Turkey for the time period 2005:Q1-2015:Q4 by scrutinizing their external asset portfolio while controlling for country fundamentals. Both asset and liability categories of Direct Investment equity are found to positively impact valuation. Equity liabilities and debt assets of Portfolio Investment positively influence valuation. Debt liabilities of all kinds of investment negatively impact valuation. Countries with stronger currency tend to gain through valuation effects. An appreciated real effective exchange rate is associated with higher valuation gains. We also found non-linear effects of the composition of external debt portfolio by interacting external portfolio and country characteristics. The external portfolio selection of emerging economies (with more in Direct Investment equity liabilities and Portfolio Investment debt assets) in the period has shielded them from global volatility, and enabled valuation gains.
2018	Allocation of Time and Household-level Consumption Equivalent Welfare: A Case of South KoreaUsing “2014 Time Usage and Quality of Life” of 17th KLIPS (Korean Labour and Income Panel Study), the first and most detailed time use survey of its kind in South Korea, we first document the patterns of time use in market work, nonmarket work (household work), child care, and a variety of definitions in leisure. We find that, while men work longer hours, men’s additional market work is well compensated by more leisure and less hours in nonmarket work and child care. We also find within-household unequal distribution of time use in nonmarket work, child care, and leisure in favour of men. Consistent with the cases of the US and other advanced economies, high-income earners tend to enjoy less hours of leisure while they spend more money on leisure activities. Secondly, we calculate the household-level consumption equivalent measure that considers consumption, leisure, life expectancy, and uncertainty. We find that taking into account non-separable preference over leisure and consumption and the quality of leisure is important and household-level welfare measures based solely on income or consumption are both incomplete and misleading.
2018	The clean development mechanism (CDM) as a financial platform for North Korea's developmentThis research examines the clean development mechanism (CDM) in order to overcome the limits that exist in the conventional financing methods for North Korea's development. In examining North Korea's CDM projects implemented thus far, it is found that the use of the CDM as a financing platform for North Korea's development is taking place at a very low level. However, if North Korea applies this framework effectively, it can expect additional financial inflows and technology transfer. Especially with regard to financial inflows, the diverse finances used in the implementation of CDM projects can also be adopted into North Korean CDM projects. Moreover, the adoption methods are expected to be more innovative than the conventional finance for development (FfD) methods.
2018	Industrial policy and the development of the automotive industry in the PhilippinesThis article explores why the Philippines’ automotive industry has been less successful than those of its Southeast Asian neighbours, despite its long history of automotive production. We stress policy inconsistency, lack of demand-side policy signals and weak state capacity as explanations, although past policies were successful in developing exports of a few key automotive components. The 2015 Comprehensive Automotive Resurgence Strategy (CARS) hopes to rejuvenate the industry but faces challenges from the lack of a diversified local components sector, continued competition from imported second-hand vehicles and likely competition under free trade agreements, particularly with South Korea.
2018	Triangular cooperation in east asia: Challenges and opportunities for Japanese official development assistanceThe article examines the potential contribution of triangular cooperation (TrC) as an emerging form of foreign aid. By reviewing the Japanese TrC practices, it addresses some critical questions from the perspective of national interests, development impact, and ownership. Under the declining trend of foreign aid as a form of resource transfer to the global South, future TrC should address questions beyond the realm of technical cooperation. The article claims that the primary function of TrC is to maintain donor relationships with emerging powers that are graduating from aid recipient status, while highlighting its potential and limitations for promoting TrC among China, South Korea, and Japan.
2018	From Global Value Chains (GVC) to innovation systems for local value chains and knowledge creationThis paper presents a hypothesis stating that at the initial stage of growth by a latecomer, increased participation in the global value chain (GVC) is necessary to learn foreign knowledge and production skills, that functional upgrading at middle-income stage requires effort to seek separation and independence from existing foreign-dominated GVCs, and that latecomer firms and economies might have to seek reintegration back into the GVC after establishing their own local value chains. This paper aims to verify this "in-out-in-again" hypothesis by looking into firm cases of upgrading in Korea and Brazil. Trends in the share of foreign value-added in gross exports (FVA) in successful catching-up economies of Korea and Taiwan, including China recently, are consistent with this pattern. Regression results also confirm a negative correlation between the degree of local creation and diffusion of knowledge and FVA values, such that gaining increased local knowledge is a basis for increasing (reducing) domestic value-added (foreign value-added). Given that this variable of local creation and diffusion of knowledge is a key innovation system variable, this finding implies that building local innovation systems is the key in making a possible upgrade while being integrated into the GVC.
2018	Exchange Rates and Economic Recovery in the 1930s: An Extension to AsiaScholars have found a positive relationship between the magnitude of currency depreciation and the extent of recovery from the Great Depression for Europe and Latin America. The relationship between currency depreciation and economic activity during the Great Depression for Asian economies has not yet been explored. This paper examines this topic using data from 13 Asian economies: China, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, and Vietnam. We find that Asian economies responded in a similar way to currency depreciation during the Great Depression as did European and Latin American countries.
2018	Analysis of Korea’s long-term growth process and lessons for sustainable development policyThis paper analyzes Korea’s growth process, not only rapid but also sustained for six decades at 6% per year. The sources of such growth were balanced among labor market demographic factors, capital investment, human capital accumulation, and productivity growth. However, the main engine of growth evolved sequentially, e.g., labor and human capital factors in the 1960s, capital deepening in the 1970s, and then productivity growth for the following periods. We found that major sources of the six-decade sustained growth were productivity growth and human capital accumulation rather than the expansion of labor force or capital investment. Counterfactual analysis of neoclassical growth model reveals that the accelerated productivity growth after the fast capital deepening was the key to Korea’s long-term growth, avoiding the middle-income trap. Appropriate calibration of the neoclassical growth model allowing time-varying transitional growth parameters explains Korea’s growth experience well and provides useful lessons for sustainable development policy.
2018	What explains current account surplus in Korea?Since the currency crisis in 1998, Korea has experienced continuous current account surpluses. Recently, the current account surplus increased more rapidly - amounting to 7.7 percent of GDP in 2015. In this paper, we investigate the underlying reasons for the widening of Korea's current account surpluses. We find that the upward trend in Korea's current account surpluses is largely explained by its demographical changes. Other economic variables are only helpful when explaining short run fluctuations in current account balances. Moreover, we show that Korea's current account surplus is expected to disappear by 2042 as it becomes one of the most aged economies in the world. Demographic changes are so powerful that they explain, quite successfully, the current account balance trends of other economies with highly aged populations such as Japan, Germany, Italy, Finland, and Greece. When we add the real exchange rate as an additional explanatory variable, it is statistically significant with the right sign, but the magnitude explained by it is quite limited. For example, to reduce the current account surplus by 1 percentage point, a 12 percent depreciation is needed. If Korea's current exchange rate is undervalued 4 to 12 percent less than the level consistent with fundamentals, it is impossible to reduce Korea's current account surplus to a reasonable level by adjusting the exchange rate alone. Another way to reduce current account surplus is to expand fiscal policies. We find, however, that the impact of fiscal adjustments in reducing current account surplus is even more limited. According to our estimates, reducing the current account surplus by 1 percentage point requires an increase in budget deficits (as a ratio to GDP) of 5 to 6 percentage points. If we allow endogenous movements of exchange rate and fiscal policy, the impact of exchange rate adjustment increases by 1.6 times but that of fiscal policy decreases that it is no longer statistically significant.
2018	Effects of Monetary Policy during Financial Market Crises and Regime Changes: An Empirical Evaluation Using a Nonlinear Vector Autoregression ModelUsing monthly data for Korea, this study examines nonlinear effects of monetary policy in association with financial market distress. The study uses a nonlinear vector autoregression model and finds that monetary policy becomes ineffective for addressing huge demand contractions in times of financial market turmoil or severe economic downturn, implying a structural change from a non-Keynesian to a Keynesian regime, such as a liquidity trap. Monetary contractions have stronger output effects than monetary expansions, particularly in times of financial distress. We found no evidence in favor of asymmetric effects of monetary shocks of different sizes. Finally, we also found financial shocks to have stronger effects on the real economy in times of financial distress than in normal times. The results have important policy implications for periods of financial turmoil or economic crisis.
2018	Monetary policy rules in emerging countries: Is there an augmented nonlinear taylor rule?This paper examines the Taylor rule in five emerging economies, namely Indonesia, Israel, South Korea, Thailand, and Turkey. In particular, it investigates whether monetary policy in these countries can be more accurately described by (i) an augmented rule including the exchange rate, as well as (ii) a nonlinear threshold specification (estimated using GMM), instead of a baseline linear rule. The results suggest that the reaction of monetary authorities to deviations from target of either the inflation or the output gap differs in terms of the size and/or statistical significance of the coefficients in the high and low inflation regimes in all countries. In particular, the exchange rate has an impact in the former but not in the latter regime. Overall, an augmented nonlinear Taylor rule appears to capture more accurately the behaviour of monetary authorities in these countries.
2018	Avoiding Being a Crushed Prawn and Becoming a Dolphin Swimming between the Two Fighting Whales? South Korea’s Strategic Choice in the Face of the Intensifying Sino?US CompetitionThis article presents an analysis of South Korea’s strategic choices over the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB), the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) in light of the Sino?US competition in post-Cold War East Asia. South Korea’s puzzling behavior here represents Seoul’s hedging strategy against the uncertain future of the Sino?US competition in East Asia. The driving force of South Korea’s hedging behavior is Seoul’s dual concerns about being excessively dependent on the USA for its security at the time of China’s rapid rise on the one hand and being pulled into a growing China’s sphere of influence at the expense of traditional US?ROK security ties on the other. Reflecting Seoul’s prudent balancing acts between the two superpowers, South Korea’s hedging often results in apparently indecisive and underdetermined strategic choices in the face of the intensifying Sino?US competition. Nevertheless, South Korea’s hedging strategy allows Seoul to deepen extensive economic ties with Beijing while maintaining a traditional security alliance with Washington. The hedging behavior of South Korea, which is uniquely positioned as a strategic partner of rapidly rising China as well as a key security ally of the rebalancing USA, sheds important light on the behavior of middle powers in alliance politics, which has largely been neglected in the current literature.
2018	DETERMINANTS of SOUTH KOREA'S INTRA-INDUSTRY TRADE with HER MAJOR TRADING COUNTRIES in the MANUFACTURING SECTORThis paper analyzed how South Korea's intra-industry trade (IIT) with her major trading countries (i.e., China, the USA, and Japan (CUJ)) in the manufacturing sector changed over time for the period of 1994-2011. It was found that South Korea's IIT with China mainly increased through economies of scale (ES), the ratio of inward and outward foreign direct investment to total investment (FDI), the ratio of intermediate cost to total cost (II), and R&D intensity (RD). On the other hand, South Korea's IIT with the USA was found to mainly increase through ES, FDI, and RD. Finally, RD, FDI, and II variables are found to be the most important determinants for South Korea's IIT with Japan.
2018	Sovereign Risk Contagion in East Asia: A Mixture of Time-Varying Copulas ApproachThis study analyzes sovereign risk contagion between four East Asian economies (China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Korea) and its structural changes through the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) and the European Debt Crisis (EDC) by applying the mixture of time-varying copulas to those economies’ credit default swap (CDS) spreads. This article first finds a strong contagion from the US and PIIGS economies to the East Asian sovereign CDS markets and intraregional contagion within the East Asian markets. Second, the impact of contagion is different according to whether it is measured by the linear (Gaussian) or the upper tail dependence. Third, Japan plays an important role in increasing the linear dependence whereas China and Korea are crucial in terms of the upper tail dependence. Lastly, the GFC has structurally increased the linear dependence but not the upper tail dependence between the East Asian sovereign CDS markets.
2018	Economic cost?benefit analysis of the addictive digital game industryThis study attempts to estimate the economic costs and benefits of the addictive digital game industry. Addiction to digital games induces economic costs such as increase in crime, facilities investments for curbing addiction, increase in counselling costs and other welfare losses. As a case study, we investigate the digital game industry in South Korea which is known to have one of the highest rates of game addiction. According to our calculations, the annual cost of game addiction is estimated to be approximately $3.5B while the annual benefit is approximately $24.3B ($3.7B for addicted user market). The proportion of the total costs to total benefits from the game industry is an alarming 14% (95% for addicted user market). We offer some policy recommendations.
2018	Champion behaviour and product innovation performance in KoreaAdopting an uncertainty-reduction perspective, this study examines the impact of champion behaviour on the product development process and the performance of new product development projects. Champion behaviour is defined as: expressing confidence in the innovation; involving and motivating others to support the innovation; and persisting under adversity. Based on data from 79 product development projects across 34 Korean firms, this study finds that champion behaviour positively contributes to project performance in both direct and indirect ways by providing market information, material resources, and organisational support. The theoretical and practical implications and directions for future research are discussed.
2018	Aid and state-building, Part II: Afghanistan and IraqPart I of this article found that, in South Korea and Taiwan, institutional legacy and continuity as well as the politics of aid did matter for post-war state-building. The inheritance and continuity of Weberian states and the receipt of aid either as budget support or increasingly aligned with local priorities helped to foster state-building. Part II of the study in this article explores a different dynamic of post-war aid to Afghanistan and Iraq which had a legacy of neopatrimonial and weak states. It argues that under more adverse initial conditions?for a neopatrimonial state?the role of aid regime and state-building strategies become even more important. Under these conditions, aid and state-building strategies may undermine state-building if they induce discontinuity in the existing state capacity and create parallel institutions to those of the state. Depending on the policies, state weakness may be reinforced if leaders are preoccupied with the politics of patronage.
2018	The effective factors of professional learning: Study on accounting firms in KoreaThe purpose of this study is to substantiate the affecting factors of informal learning outcomes for professions in various dimensions of an individual and organization. In specific, the study analyzed the effects of learning motivation, job characteristics, and a supportive learning environment which have on task-related knowledge acquisition, adapting to organization and understanding contexts, relationship formation, and improving self-development-ability. The participants of the study were 261 professionals working at four major accounting firms in South Korea. Multiple regression models were applied step by step for analysis. In this study, the informal learning of professionals working at four major accounting firms is influenced by various factors of learning motivation, job characteristics, and a supportive learning environment. The detailed analysis results were as follows. Firstly, peer-support showed the most positive effect on task-related knowledge acquisition. Secondly, for adapting to organization and understanding contexts, task autonomy showed the greatest effect. Thirdly, peer-support was found to be the most important factor for relationship formation. Fourthly, for improving self-development ability, learning goal orientation showed to be the most important factor. The various factors facilitated the professional learning by empirical identification. The study presented practical implications for creating an effective informal learning support environment.
2018	The impact of Asian economic policy uncertainty: Evidence from Korean housing marketWe study the impact of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) of Asian four countries such as Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, and China on housing market returns in Korea. Also, we document the relationship between the EPU index of those four countries and the housing market including macroeconomic indicators in Korea. The EPU index of those four countries has significantly a negative effect on the housing purchase price index, housing lease price index in Korea. The EPU index in Korea and Japan has significantly a negative effect on the CPI. The EPU index in only Japan has significantly a negative effect on the PPI. The EPU index in Hong Kong and Korea has significantly a negative effect but the EPU index in China significantly has a positive effect on the stock price index in construction industry. The EPU index in only Korea has significantly a negative effect the stock price index in banking industry. This study shows the EPU index of the Korea has the negative relationships on the housing market economy rather than other countries by VECM. And this study has an important evidence of the spillover of several macroeconomic indicators in Korea for the EPU index of the Asian four countries.
2018	Capitalist maturity and South Korea's post-development conundrumSouth Korea's post World War II economic development trajectory is well known. From an impoverished warn-torn nation, the country has progressed on all fronts. However, the objective is to focus on the “post-development” question, namely, what does a country do after it becomes prosperous. To put it another way, what are some of the emergent challenges that successful development poses for Korea, and how might it tackle them. I use the concept of capitalist maturity to denote Korea's current state of prosperity and examine some of the economic, social, and political consequences. Some of these post-development conundrums I argue have resulted from the transformation of Korea's state?business development partnership to a business?state political partnership in the context of a democratizing Korea. This paper examines the challenges and some of the policy options to address them, including the rebalancing of the state?business relationship.
2018	Measuring the dynamics of APEC output connectednessWe examine the dynamics of output connectedness of Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies using time-varying, region-specific, generalised connectedness measures. We find that the connectedness of APEC economies with the rest of the world is quite substantial, with the 2008?09 Global Financial Crisis increasing the connectedness measures above their precrisis levels. The USA, China, and Korea are shown to be systemically important and to dominate APEC’s real activities, while outside the APEC region the roles of India and the UK are also non-negligible. These results suggest that the majority of APEC economies are considerably open to output shocks from the dominant economies such that policymakers in APEC must be continuously conscious of headwinds originating from these sources.
2018	The Effects of Oil Price on the Korean Economy: A Global VAR ApproachThis article empirically explores the effects of oil price on the Korean economy using a Global VAR model. First, we evaluate the average connectedness of oil price with the Korean domestic variables over the precrisis period. We then investigate the time-varying contribution of oil price to the Korean financial and real sectors during and after the global financial crisis through recursive estimation. It is found that the contribution of oil price becomes very large in the case of real exports, equity prices, and real output, but plays a much less prevalent role in the remaining cases. In the meantime, the time-varying contribution of oil price to the Korean economy has not changed during and after the global financial crisis. Interestingly, we find that the Korean economy is affected mostly by overseas financial conditions in the short-term but it becomes more susceptible to oil price fluctuations in the long run, suggesting that Korea’s reliance on energy imports leaves the economy exposed to volatility in energy prices.
2018	Weak signal detecting of industry convergence using information of products and services of global listed companies - focusing on growth engine industry in South KoreaThe [World Economic Forum 2016, https://www.weforum.org/events/world-economicforum- annual-meeting-2016. Accessed 5 Aug 2017] predicted that the world would face the Fourth Industrial Revolution which means innovative changes through convergence of cutting-edge information and communications technologies (ICTs) such as artificial intelligence, IoT, big data and cloud computing with conventional industries. It was forecasted that such innovation would take place across all industries and services. In particular, the Fourth Industrial Revolution has paid attention to changes in conventional traditional industries. The weak signal analysis is a method which can detect the sign of future changes at an early stage. A weak signal is defined as an advanced indicator in such changes. Therefore, its search and monitoring can be an early warning on threat and great opportunity to be prepared. To overcome the limitation of future prediction which is mostly dependent upon an expert group's intuitive judgment, this study attempted to investigate the weak signal of convergence among industries, using knowledge structure based approaches. As new products and services can lead to convergence between industries, research data has gathered information on the products and services of global listed companies which have been established for the past 11 years. For comparative analysis, they were grouped every 5 years, and product and service trends were compared. And we detected weak signals of convergence with different industries and noticed the changes of existing industries. Historically, the convergence of industries is mainly discussed in relation to science and technology-led industries, so the industrial field that has been studied has chosen Korea's growth engine industries, a high-tech science and technology industries.
2018	The Developmental State: Dead or Alive?Before the 1980s, the mainstream Western prescription for developing countries to catch up with the West assigned the state a leading role in governing the market. In the 1980s, this shifted to a framework-providing role in a largely deregulated and maximally open economy. Also in the 1980s, it became apparent that some East Asian capitalist economies were growing so fast that they would become ‘developed’ in the foreseeable future, marking them out as completely exceptional. Mainstream economists explained their success as the result of following the Western prescription, while other scholars attributed this rapid growth to ‘the developmental state’. This essay compares these two explanations of successful economic development, concluding in favour of the latter ? with respect to the catch-up decades. But what happened subsequently? Several scholars who accept the key role of the developmental state in the early period of fast industrialization in East Asia now argue that South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore have transformed from developmental to close-to-neoliberal states. This contribution argues that the erstwhile East Asian developmental states have indeed changed, but they have not transformed into neoliberal states. Rather they have adapted and evolved, but still undertake market-steering, ‘societal mission’ roles well beyond neoliberal limits. The essay also suggests how other developing countries can learn lessons from their experience.
2018	The role of problem solving ability on innovative behavior and opportunity recognition in university studentsUniversities engage in entrepreneurship education to increase social value creation, through students' new opportunities recognition. However, there are not enough of empirical researches on whether the current entrepreneurship education can be differentiated from other curriculum to improve the opportunity recognition process. This study argues that it is very important for cognitive abilities to be manifested as behavior when students in university are new opportunities recognition. For this purpose, the relationship between problem solving ability, innovation behavior, and opportunity perception was verified empirically. This study was conducted on 203 students who took entrepreneurship education courses at Korean universities. The results of this study showed that problem solving ability positively influenced innovation behavior and opportunity perception. Innovation behavior was identified as a key parameter that partially mediated the relationship between problem solving ability and innovation behavior. The implication of this study is to prove the relationship between individual 's problem - solving ability considering the characteristics of education in Korea and the opportunity through innovative behavior and various learning strategies to help entrepreneurship education to design better courses for the future It has important implications for strategic pedagogy that can enhance behavioral elements in development.
2018	International transmission of Japanese monetary shocks under low and negative interest rates: A global factor-augmented vector autoregressive approachWe examine the implications of Japanese monetary shocks under recent very low and sometimes negative interest rates to the Japanese economy and three of its major trading partners: Korea, China and the United States. In particular, we investigate the implications of shocks to the 2-year Japanese government bond rate in a series of factor-augmented vector autoregressive (FAVAR) models, in which both local and global conditions are proxied by latent factors generated from domestic economic indicators and weighted indicators of major trading partners, respectively. Our results suggest that shocks to 2-year Japanese government bond rates have substantive impacts on Japanese economic activity and inflation in conditions of low or even negative short-term rates. However, we find only modest global spillovers from Japanese monetary policy shocks compared to innovations in 2-year US Treasury yields over the same period.
2018	Factors Affecting ROK?US Relations, 1990?2011: An Empirical AnalysisThis study investigates what factors affect Republic of Korea (South Korea)?United States (ROK?US) relations based on a theoretical framework, using event data created by content analysis from 1990 to 2011. South Korea’s economic development led to democratization, which resulted in elite changes. New progressive elites interpreted national interests differently and demanded changes in ROK?US relations. Accordingly, the ROK?US relationship was tense during the progressive administrations. ROK’s economic development attracted more trade with the US, which enhanced the bilateral relationship due to heightened interdependence. By contrast, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea)?US relationship and the trade between ROK and China did not significantly affect ROK? relations, meaning ROK’s relationship with other countries does not affect ROK?US relations.
2018	Electronics industry interregional linkages in East Asia and their regional development impacts in ChinaA newly developed 2010 East Asian multi-regional input?output table was used to examine intra-electronics industry relationships. The analysis suggests that Taiwan, Korea, Japan, and the southern and eastern coastal regions of China are the five most important players, and that the most prominent interregional flows of value added are those from the last two to the first three regions. Taiwan plays a critical coordinating role in East Asian electronics production. Inside mainland China, the southern coastal region plays a dominant role in promoting electronics industry development in other regions. Although most of China’s inland regions are not well articulated into the East Asian electronics production network, the south-western region is highly integrated into southern coastal region electronics production.
2018	The Time-varying Impact of China’s Economic Rebalancing on Korea’s Exports to ChinaWhile China seeks to shift from exports and investment to a consumption-oriented economy and to increase the self-sufficiency rate of exports, this study uses time-varying parameter vector autoregression (TVP-VAR) to examine the impact of economic structural changes in China on Korea’s exports to China over time. The study results suggest that the impact of China’s export shocks on Korea’s exports has weakened, which demonstrates the slowdown in regional production fragmentation, considering that Korea’s export goods are mainly intermediate goods. Instead, the influence of China’s domestic demand shock on Korea’s exports has expanded, which implies that China has increasingly become the final destination of intermediate goods made in Korea.
2018	Looking into the black box of the Korean economy: the sparse factor model approach<sup>1</sup>This paper investigates the usefulness of the factor model, which extracts latent information from a large set of data, in forecasting Korean macroeconomic variables such as inflation, GDP growth, exports, consumption and investment. In addition to the well-known principal component analysis (PCA), we apply sparse principal component analysis (SPCA) to build a forecasting model and combine the estimated factors with various shrinkage methods. We look into the component of Korean macroeconomy using SPCA and then identify the key variables of the component. Our major findings are that various hybrid models outperform benchmark models including an autoregressive model, and that this result becomes clearer as the forecast horizons lengthen. We also find that the main ingredients of Korean macroeconomic black box as indicated by SPCA include interest rates, construction orders received and employment variables. Among them, the interest rates have stronger impact on economy than others.
2018	Postauthoritarian transformation in the republic of korea: Background, mechanisms, consequencesThe article reviews the modernization of the social and political system, state economic management and foreign policy strategy in postauthoritarian South Korea. It looks at the factors that contributed to the success of the South Korean democratic transition, including the strengthening of the legislative branch and the empowerment of the National Assembly, political liberalization, increment in activity of the civil society and non-governmental organizations, as well as emergence of new forms of an Internet-driven political participation of South Korean citizens and youth. Although the number of political parties in South Korea that absorbed the interests of various social groups greatly increased in the postauthoritarian era, the majority of political forces are predominantly elitist and are formed on a regional basis. Those parties proved unable to control the President and top executives thus undermining the credibility of the government. The article also explores the evolution of relations between the government and big business, arising from administrative and economic reforms. Although the South Korean government undertook notable steps toward market openness and liberalization, which significantly enhanced transparency and reduced overall state intervention in the economy, it could not eliminate the top-level corruption that triggered the political crisis in 2016-2017. Finally, the article explores the impact of the democratic transformation in South Korea on its foreign policy strategy, including relations with major foreign counterparts as well as South Korea- North Korea dialogue. The growing demand of the South Korean society for a more independent global posture leads to modification of foreign policy which stays loyal to the military and political alliance with the United States while taking steps to diversify political and economic ties.
2018	North Korea’s economic integration and growth potentialThe growth projections based on cross-country evidence show that North Korea could achieve higher economic growth in the long run if it embarks on substantial policy reforms toward a market-oriented and open economy. Using an empirical gravity model of trade and direct investment, we forecast that, when the two Koreas pursue economic integration and cooperation without military conflicts, North Korea’s trade with South Korea can increase by up to 36 percent of North Korea’s GDP and its foreign direct investment (FDI) flows from South Korea by up to 6 percent of GDP. Overall, by promoting trade and FDI integration with South Korea, North Korea can boost its GDP growth by approximately 3 percentage points per year. Combined with a market-oriented reform, the North Korean economy could grow by approximately 4.7 percent per year over the coming decades. Conversely, if more rigid sanctions imposed on North Korea become effective, its trade and investment will decrease and its GDP growth rate is expected to fall by approximately 2 percentage points per year.
2018	Modeling the economic impacts of Korean unificationThis paper explores the economic impacts of Korean unification on North and South Korea. It presents a new consistent database on macroeconomic, sectoral and trade data, and an input?output table for the North Korean economy, and then incorporates it in a global intertemporal multi-sector general equilibrium model. Assuming hypothetical scenarios such as North Korea’s reform and gradual convergence, its sudden collapse and immediate unification, and chaos and crises in both Koreas, we quantify the consequences of Korean unification on economic activity, trade and capital flows in the two Koreas. The results highlight the importance of the unification processes and of alternative policy responses in both Koreas to the economic impacts of unification.
2018	A quantitative study on endogenous formation of comparative advantage in South KoreaThis paper incorporates search friction and human capital accumulation into an international trade framework to analyze the endogenous formation of comparative advantage induced by long-term employment relationship. The calibrated model demonstrates that the long-term employment relationship, by facilitating both human and physical capital formation, has contributed to South Korea's rapid ‘export-oriented industrialization.’ The counterfactual experiment reports that aggregate output in 2013 would have been reduced by one quarter, if South Korea had stayed as an autarky economy. Further counterfactual experiments find that had a typical worker's job duration been about two years from 1960s to 2010s, output in 2013 would have been reduced by more than 42 percent. Also, South Korea might have exported primary products, not secondary products with even shorter job duration or less efficient learning-by-doing.
2018	The effects of corporate social responsibility on job performance: Moderating effects of authentic leadership and meaningfulness of workThe study aims to investigate methods for companies to contribute to not only social and national developments, but also on the promotion of individuals and companies by re-examining the various phenomena that define companies. The study examines the relationship between subordinate factors of social responsibility activities and job performances as well as the role of CEOs in showing authentic leadership and meaningfulness of work. A total of 312 valid questionnaires were obtained, and hypotheses were tested using regression analysis, hierarchical regression analysis, and 3-way interactions. The results suggest that corporate social responsibility activities not only enhanced the performance of the members, but also confirmed the importance of the authentic leadership of the CEO. Additionally, the role of the members in the company also showed to play a very significant role in a company's developments. The results also show that the CEO and members need to make efforts to increase ethics as well as gain more competitiveness and improve their reputation by promoting their sense of calling and feeling of compassion in the workplace. In other words, the members of the high-ranking book and the members of the relatively low position will have different degrees of information transfer and evaluation of the company policy may be different.
2018	Russia in Eurasian electric power integrationThe paper analyses current state and prospects of interstate power integration of Russia with the neighboring Eurasian countries. The integration is based on the creation and operation of interstate electric ties and joint construction of power facilities. The authors assess national programs of energy development in Russia and neighboring countries, forecasts of international organizations. The modeling makes it possible to determine the most economically sound options for the prospective configuration of interstate electric ties, considering technical, economic, geopolitical and environmental constraints. A retrospective analysis was made with a focus on the economic growth rates, an increase in electricity consumption due to the economic growth, a change in the energy-GDP ratio, an increase in the population number and trends in per capita electricity consumption of developing countries approaching the level of developed countries. Consideration is given to all countries bordering Russia. They are arranged in 5 groups: 1) Scandinavia and Baltic states; 2) Eastern Europe; 3) the Caucasus and Asia Minor; 4) Central and South Asia; 5) East Asia. It is shown that the most important factors determining the need and capability of electric power integration are the economic growth rates, the increase in electricity consumption and the extent to which the countries are provided with their own natural resources. In this context, the conclusion is made that power export to the countries of East Asia, particularly Japan and Republic of Korea, will be the most effective. Russia, with its favorable geographical position, large territory, extended latitudinal electric network infrastructureand great potential of natural energy resources, can play an essential role in building the Eurasian supergrid. In this case, Russia (as well as other countries participating in the electric power integration) may gain numerous positive system benefits: a) reduced costs of commissioning new capacities; b) improved operating conditions of power facilities (on a daily and annual basis); c) increased reliability of the integrated power system; d) more renewable generation in the energy balances of different countries; and e) the countries with substantial energy resources, in particular Russia, will get considerable revenues from exports. Moreover, the energy integration will facilitate closer political relations among the involved countries and normalization of the international situation at whole.
2018	Foreign investments in the economy of sankt-petersburg and leningrad regionThe article describes development of foreign investments in the economy of Sankt-Petersburg and Leningrad region. Sankt-Petersburg occupies special place among different subjects of Russian Federation. It is an important economic center of the country and takes the second place in population of Russia. The city enjoys important geopolitical situation and developed diversified economy. Thanks to its geographical position at the Baltic Sea near EU and the largest ports of Europe Sankt-Petersburg became the North-West economic gates to Russia. Sankt-Petersburg plays an important role in the nation's external economic relations and in receiving foreign direct investments. Sankt-Petersburg has the chances to compete with Moscow with the help of additional effect of neighbourhood (especially with Nordic countries) and thanks to its attractiveness for foreign tourists. Sankt-Petersburg attracts approximately 5% of FDI to Russia. The main investors in Sankt-Petersburg are the countries of EU-Cyprus, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Netherlands. Large investors are also Switzerland, British Virgin Islands and South Korea. The main investors in Leningrad region are again the countries of EU-Cyprus, Netherlands and Finland-and Switzerland. The main sectors of investment are manufacturing, transport and finances. The purposes of investment policy of Sankt-Petersburg are the growth of volumes of FDI. Investment ratings of Sankt-Petersburg are rather high. The authorities of Sankt-Petersburg create industrial parks and economic zones with special regime to invite private investments. Among companies with foreign capital most are from Cyprus, Finland, Belarus, Germany and USA. The companies from Nordic countries are among the most active in Sankt-Petersburg and Leningrad region. Foreign direct investments of the Finnish firms are concentrated in this region.
2018	North Korean nuclear problem: Status, standoff, prospective solutionsThe author examines the situation involving the North Korean nuclear and missile issue. It is argued that the crisis on the Korean Peninsula has been aggravated in the past years due to persistent striving of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea to drastically increase its potential of mass destruction weapons and the means of their delivery. During a quarter of century, neighboring and most concerned countries have made numerous attempts to involve North Korea into negotiations in order to resolve the problem by peaceful means, but those efforts brought no positive results. The situation even deteriorated after the new dictator - Kim Chong Un - came to power in 2011. In the past four to five years, Pyongyang has removed all previous self-restrictions to initiate at full power a large-scale program of the nuclear and missile weapons development. The complication is that the DPRK is not willing to advance any reasonable ideas on how to find a way out of the present deadlock and categorically rejects any proposals regarding aimed at unilateral denuclearization of the country. Although the military challenge coming from North Korean experiments seems to be exaggerated by the American side, the major danger stems from their negative impact on non-proliferation regime. Quite clear that the DPRK demonstrates very bad example for some developing countries, which possess excessive military or political ambitions. On July 4, 2017, Russia and China, who attentively watch the developments, put forward a set of proposals regarding an incremental resolution plan for the Korean issues, beginning from moratorium on nuclear tests and simultaneous freeze on South Korean and American joint military exercises. However, those proposals did not find support on the part of the USA and its Asian allies. In this regard it should be mentioned that at the moment, one of the main obstacles is the lack of coordination and trust between the five powers most interested in the Korean settlement - Russia, China, the USA, the Republic of Korea and Japan. All this necessitates the launch of a regular multilateral consultative mechanism in order to strengthen control over the dynamics of the situation and accelerate the search of constructive ideas aimed at the achievement of comprehensive nuclear problem resolution.
2018	Development assistance to central Asia as a foreign policy instrumentThe article presents the results of a seminar organized at the Primakov National Research Institute of World Economy and International Relations, where the issues of foreign aid to Central Asia were addressed. Participants looked at the record shown by some of the leading donors, including the U.S., the EU, Germany, the UK, Nordic states, Turkey, China, Japan, South Korea. It becomes evident that emerging donors bring ever more significant flows of aid to the region, which is regarded by established donors as peripheral. Assistance provided by the established donors rose quickly after the 9/11 terrorist attack in 2001 and the subsequent military intervention in Afghanistan, whereas Central Asia was seen as the key to stabilisation of the broader region. Although regional security concerns did not disappear, they are no more on the list of priorities in comparison to other recipients of international aid. However, the established donors remain exemplary in the ways they arrange and use assistance instruments to help recipients reach development priorities. Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan stand out as the biggest recipients of international assistance, which is justified by their poorer economic condition compared to neighbours. While the emerging donors do play a growing role in the region, Central Asia does not represent a key priority for them as well. Though in Turkey the cultural ties with Central Asia triggered hopes for growing influence, they faded since other emerging donors increased their presence in the region. The activities of emerging donors may be less transparent and streamlined, but they represent the future of foreign aid to the region.
2018	Comparing Japan, the US, and China's roles in trade relationships with emerging East Asian countries during the last three decadesThe expansion of trade relationships among East Asian economies along with the high economic growth rate in these countries within the last three decades has demonstrated their accomplishment in transferring the benefits of trade into their economies and increasing their production capacities. The 1985 Plaza Accord and the revaluation of Japan's yen, China's transition over the last three decades, and the banking crisis in 1997 to 1998 are among the main events affecting the influence of Japan, the US, and China in East Asia. This study analyzes the pattern of trade relationships in the Emerging East Asian (EEA) economic network in the past three decades and the role of Japan, the US, and China in the region over the mentioned period. The analysis is based on the real data of Asian input-output tables from 1985 to 2005 while estimating those of 2012. The trend of the Leontief coefficients from1985 to 2012 illustrates that the concentration of suppliers has changed gradually due to the emergence of China, South Korea, and Taiwan as new regional suppliers in addition to Japan and the US since 2005. However, China, to some extent, has managed to outperform Japan and the US in the region. Determinants, such as Export-Platform Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and the resulting knowledge and technology transfers, are analyzed as the drivers of the evolution of China's role in the region. The Contribution Ratios (CR) of final demand of Japan and the US to EEA countries' value added, have decreased during 1985 to 2012, whereas the CR of China has drastically increased during the same period. The results corroborate that the share of export to the GDP index overestimates the share of external demands to the value added in EEA countries. This finding supports the notion that the total export is prone to double counting in East Asian economies.
2018	Understanding Korea's Saemaul Undong: Theory, evidence, and implicationThis study attempts to derive a theory of Saemaul Undong (SMU) by identifying its key success factors and to discover its policy implications for economic development. The proposed theory argues that the success of the SMU was fundamentally driven by the government's strong adherence to the economic discrimination (ED) principle of "rewarding high performance and penalizing low performance," which is the basic function of the market. ED is the grand principle behind the success of the SMU. This study draws upon detailed historical and personal accounts about how the SMU was implemented by former President Park Chung Hee to show how faithful the SMU was to the ED principle. In addition, the study provides a new empirical model to estimate the effect of the SMU on economic growth and shows that the SMU had been a significant contributor to Korea's high growth performance during the 1970s. One of the main policy implications of the SMU is that development and social policies should comply with the ED principle by preventing any political influence from working against the ED principle for the success and sustainability of those policies. Finally, the study argues that the SMU model provides an alternative or complementary perspective to the existing community development models.
2018	Servicization with skill premium in the digital economyPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine an endogenous growth model, as a component of a broader study of servicization with skill premium and its policy implications in the evolving digital economy. Design/methodology/approach: This paper develops a two-sector endogenous growth model which allows for the observed characteristics of digitally empowered structural changes. Specifically, the driving force of economic growth is the expanding variety of intermediate services as a consequence of innovation in services. The introduction of new intermediate services specifically contributes to total factor productivity in the production of service sector, and thus an uneven growth path with skill premium toward a service economy generally exists. Findings: The principal finding of this paper is that the digitally empowered expanding variety of intermediate services due to innovation contributes significantly to total factor productivity in the production of service sector, and thus a servicization with skill premium generally exists along a steady-state path. In addition, this paper derives an optimal innovation policy to rule out the market failures due to innovation externality and market power in monopolistic competition conditions, and shows the Rybczynski effects of exogenous endowment changes in the evolving digital economy. Originality/value: The principal contribution of this paper is to determine how unbalanced endogenous growth along a steady-state path is linked with a service economy with skill premium in the evolving digital economy. In addition to this analysis, this paper provides policy implications ? namely, that a positive but finite innovation subsidy can achieve the social optimum in the digital economy, and that an exogenous increase in high-skilled labor can speed up a digitally empowered economic growth.
2018	Productivity analysis on the service sector in Korea: Evidence from industry-level and firm-level dataOne of the most dramatic characterizations of late industrializa-tion is the speed and scope of structural transformation from manufacturing-based to service-based economy. This study aims to analyze this transformation in the Korean economy in terms of productivity performance in its service sector over the period of 1995-2013 in which the economy experienced two financial crises in the years 1997 and 2007. The major finding is that, while the growth rate of gross output in the service sector has decelerated more rapidly than in the manufacturing sector, the growth rate of total factor productivity  has improved from near 0% during 1996-2010 to 1.41% during 2011-2013. Particularly, the improvement in TFP in distribution and producer services has been impressive, which indicates that the Korean economy is transforming itself toward a service-oriented growth and that two financial crises have helped such transformation. However, the relative level of TFP in the service sector remains to be far behind than that of the US and Japan.
2018	WORLD CLASS UNIVERSITIES: EXPERIENCE OF IDENTIFICATIONThe article discusses the concept of the world-class universities and introduces the author’s understanding of this term that allows not only identify these objects but also quantify their international potential. The international position of the leading universities from different countries of the world, including states in Europe, Asia, Africa, Middle East, Latin America and “The Small British Union”, were analyzed based on the data from rating agencies (QS, THE, ARWU, CWUR, NTU). The Rating of the World-Class Universities, including 107 leading universities of the world, and the Rating of National University Systems, covering 42 countries, were built. Also, it is shown that nowadays the American university system is an inaccessible leader. Taking this into account, the interest is concluded in the comparative analysis of the university systems of Asia and Europe. It is introduced that nowadays Asia is almost equal to continental Europe in potential of the university system and ready to make the next step towards its advance. Russia is close to the countries of Latin America in the parameters of the university system. It is shown that for today in Russia only Lomonosov Moscow State University is relevant to the criteria of a world-class university. Moreover, different models of building university systems are introduced on the example of some European countries. It is obvious that some countries make accent on the wide net of the superior universities while others practice point strategy of creating a small number of very strong world-class universities. There is introduced a hypothesis about the statement that education is the “secondary” function of the society and follows the successes and needs of the real economy. That is obvious on the example of the Asian counties. This hypothesis is refined with another thesis, according to which there is a close connection between the amount of the world-class universities and global high-technological corporations of a country. This thesis is illustrated by several particular examples (Finland, South Korea, Singapore, Brazil). Paying attention to the fact that even such big and economically strong countries of Asia as India, Malaysia and Indonesia do not yet have a full-fledged world-class university, we can confirm lethargy of the educational system of such countries as compared to the real sector of economy. In addition, possible generalization of the identifying algorithm of the world-class universities is introduced.
2018	The role of trade in structural transformationLow agriculture productivity is considered a key obstacle to economic development for many countries. International trade in agricultural goods can help overcome this barrier and facilitate structural transformation because it allows countries to import part of their food needs. This article quantifies the role of trade in this context through the examples of South Korea during the last 50 years and Great Britain in the 19th century. To do the analysis, I calibrate and simulate a two-sector, neoclassical growth model to match the data and perform the policy experiments. I find that agricultural imports played a crucial role in the early transformation of Great Britain, while, in South Korea, trade also had a positive impact on its structural transformation but it could have played a much larger role if the country had not introduced agricultural protection policies.
2018	The effects of government spending shocks on the trade account balance in KoreaThis paper investigates fiscal policy effects on the trade account balance in Korea using open economy vector autoregressive (VAR) models. In response to fiscal spending shocks, real appreciations occur, followed by deteriorations in the trade account balance with the pre-2000 sample period, while real depreciations occur leading to an improvement in the trade account balance with the post-2000 sample period. We explain this structural break in relation to Korea's transition from a tightly managed exchange rate regime to a more market-oriented floating system after Korea's foreign exchange crisis in 1997?98. Furthermore, such fiscal policy effects from our post-2000 sub-sample imply that expansionary fiscal policy can be effective in stimulating private sector economy in Korea.
2018	Development of a dynamic incentive and penalty program for improving the energy performance of existing buildingsThe positive effectiveness of energy policy instruments such as national carbon emissions reduction target (CERT) and energy performance certificates can be achieved by encouraging the voluntary participation of the public in the energy-saving campaign. Towards this end, this study aimed to develop a dynamic incentive and penalty program for improving the energy performance of existing buildings. Four types of incentive programs and four types of penalty programs were established based on three comparison criteria. As a building-level, the first comparison criterion is the averaging approach based on similar cases that can be retrieved using a simplified case-based reasoning model. As a community-level, the second comparison criterion is one-step higher operational and letter rating than the grade of a given building. As a national-level, the third comparison criterion is the operational and letter rating as the minimum criteria for achieving the national CERT. In this study, an elementary school facility located in Seoul, South Korea was selected to validate the applicability of the developed program. As a result, besides the category benchmark, the various comparison criteria should be provided to the public to encourage the voluntary participation of the public in the energy-saving campaign.
2018	Development of the life-cycle economic and environmental assessment model for establishing the optimal implementation strategy of the rooftop photovoltaic systemTo maximize the life-cycle economic and environmental performance of the rooftop photovoltaic (PV) system in real projects, it is necessary to consider several factors such as regional climate factors (i.e., geographical and meteorological factors) and building characteristics (i.e., on-site installation factors, rooftop area limit, and budget limit). Towards this end, this study aimed to develop the life-cycle economic and environmental assessment model for establishing the optimal implementation strategy of the rooftop PV system. The robustness and reliability of the developed model were evaluated in terms of two perspectives: (i) for the effectiveness of the optimal solution, the optimization results were generated by considering the regional climate factors and building characteristics. Namely, the results for SIR25 (saving to investment ratio at year 25), which was set at the optimization goal, were 2.540 (Busan, southern part of South Korea), 2.485 (Daejeon, central part of South Korea), and 2.266 (Seoul, northern part of South Korea), respectively; and (ii) for the efficient computation time, the time required for determining the optimal solution was only 27 seconds. The developed model can be used to easily and accurately assess the life-cycle economic and environmental performance of the rooftop PV system in the early design phase.
2017	Rebalancing Trade in East Asia: Evidence from the Electronics IndustryChina’s trade surplus remains huge. Researchers reported that China’s exports decimate manufacturing job abroad and stoke protectionist pressures. China’s surplus is concentrated in the electronics sector. Much of the value-added of China’s exports of smartphones, tablet computers, and consumer electronics goods comes from processors, sensors, and other parts and components (p&c) produced in Taiwan, South Korea, Japan, and ASEAN. This article finds that the exchange rates in countries supplying p&c are crucial for understanding China’s electronics exports. A concerted appreciation of East Asian currencies is needed to rebalance the region’s exports. However, because of underdeveloped financial markets, the U.S. dollar remains the most important currency in the currency baskets of many East Asian economies. Countries resist appreciation against the dollar to maintain competitiveness vis-a-vis neighboring economies. This article considers ways to overcome this coordination failure and develop stronger consumption-oriented economies in the region.
2017	The Political Economy of Performance Standards: Automotive Industrial Policy in Comparative Historical PerspectiveA substantial body of literature holds that industrial policies work best when their beneficiaries are subject to demanding performance standards. By conditioning access to their low-cost loans and lucrative markets on foreign sales and local content, for example, East Asian officials forced their manufacturers to improve quality, cut costs, and develop linkages to allied industries?that generated jobs and foreign exchange revenues of their own?in the so-called miracle years. But the politics of performance standards are themselves unclear. Why are they more common in some countries than others? Are they more likely to be imposed by autocratic than democratic regimes? And, if so, why? I address these questions by examining cross-national data on export and local content requirements in the auto industry in 1980; find that they all but presupposed autocracy in labour-surplus?but not labour-scarce?countries; explore the interactions of political regimes, productive assets, and performance standards in South Korea in particular; and discuss their theoretical and methodological implications. The results not only imply that efforts to build new comparative advantages over the long run by means of performance standards that put existing comparative advantages at risk in the short run are unlikely to succeed in labour-surplus democracies but, in so doing, speak to the merits of ‘middle-N’ methods and typologies that try to reconcile the at times competing goals of generality and historical detail in cross-national research.
2017	Monetary policy regime change and regional inflation dynamics: looking through the lens of sector-level data for KoreaThis paper explores the impact of the adoption of inflation targeting (IT) on the dynamics of city-level inflation in Korea using both aggregate and sector-level data. When looking at aggregate regional inflation, we find that the mean, volatility and persistence fell in all cities in the wake of the monetary policy regime change, consistent with other evidence in the literature. Delving more deeply into the disaggregate data reveals additional insights however. For most of the changes we observe in the dynamics of regional inflation, we find that the aggregate effects are being driven primarily by sectors that fall into the ‘Services’ category. We posit that the impact of better anchored inflationary expectations is primarily on the less-traded services sectors of the economy, where the domestic monetary policy framework has a relatively larger influence. When it comes to the increased co-movement observed across regions under an IT regime, however, it is the ‘Commodities’ sectors rather than ‘Services’ that are responsible, probably because services inflation becomes relatively more influenced by local factors once it has stabilized within the target range. Therefore, adoption of IT may not necessarily increase all measures of regional synchronization even when the goal of better-anchored inflationary expectations is achieved.
2017	R&amp;D investment, cash holdings and the financial crisis: evidence from Korean corporate dataThis article examines the real effects of the financial crisis in 2008 on corporate R&D investment by analyzing firm-level panel data from 2005 to 2011 obtained from KIS-VALUE, a Korean corporate finance database. I estimate a dynamic panel model of R&D investment that includes an after-crisis dummy to reflect the effects of the external finance supply shock after the financial crisis, an interaction term of the dummy and cash holdings to measure the marginal effect of cash holdings after the crisis, investment opportunities (sales and the q ratio) and financial positions as the debt-equity ratio. The estimation implies a negative yet relatively small impact of the credit supply shock from the financial crisis on R&D investment and the mitigation of the negative impacts by cash holdings after the onset of the financial crisis, whereas the data show decreasing R&D investment and sales for the whole period. Based on the data and the estimation, I find that firms were able to lessen the pressure from diminishing market demand before the crisis using external finance, but they had to use internal financial sources after the crisis smooth R&D investment.
2017	Dollarization, Seigniorage, and Prices: The Case of North KoreaThis study employs a general equilibrium monetary search model to examine the effects of the recent dollarization in North Korea on seigniorage and prices. Maximum seigniorage is generated at a high rate of money growth when dollarization is mild. However, under a high degree of dollarization seigniorage declines sharply when the money growth rate is high. Accordingly, seigniorage can be increased by de-dollarizing the economy through lowering the money growth rate. This finding implies that the post-2013 price stabilization may be a result of the restriction on printing of money with the aim of increasing seigniorage. This finding also recognizes that the North Korean authorities have little room for maneuver on monetary policy under the conditions of widespread dollarization.
2017	Optimal Macroprudential Policies and House Prices in KoreaThis article investigates the impacts of the macroprudential policy of limitation on credit growth in housing market on Korean economy to find empirical and theoretical implications. Empirical results based on VAR models show that macroprudential policies like LTV and DTI in Korea have significant and persistent effect on real household credit and real house price. This article further addresses implications of optimal macroprudential and monetary policy in Korea by employing a standard DSGE model. The results suggest that the time-varying macroprudential policy responding to the borrower’s debt to income ratio is most effective in stabilizing household debt among the macroprudential policy rules considered, but produces a moderate downturn of the economy.
2017	International Perceptions of South Korea as Development Partner: Attractions and Strategic ImplicationsUnlike a number of other Asian donors and development partners, including Development Assistance Committee (DAC) member Japan, South Korea has received an almost unqualified welcome as a provider of international assistance. This paper analyses why this is the case, examining three groupings of international actors: 'traditional' OECD-DAC Western donors; other Asian development partners, both DAC and non-DAC; and recipient countries. For each grouping, it offers a specific set of interests and contexts that have enabled South Korea to relatively successfully advance itself in the international development landscape. By demonstrating the disparate international perceptions of South Korea as a development partner, this paper reveals international actors' strategic imperatives, and provides a critical reflection on the emerging discursive frames and institutional ecology of contemporary development.
2017	To Be or Not to Be Part of Greater China: Social Development in the Post-Ma TaiwanSince the beginning of the 21st century, Taiwan has transitioned towards democratization. In 2000, the young opposition party, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), defeated and replaced the authoritarian ruling party, the Kuomintang (KMT), for the first time. However, this critical political change failed to meet the social reform expectations of the people, which resulted in the triumph of the KMT in the presidential election in 2008. The same story was repeated in 2016 when the KMT and President Ma Ying-jeou lost their legitimacy to the public, and they were replaced by the current President Tsai Ing-wen, the DPP leader. This article interprets the extremely difficult policy choice of Taiwan towards China and how its relationship with China shapes social development issues behind these political changes. Democratization has long been regarded as the main driving force for East Asian welfare development, especially with the cases of Taiwan and Korea. However, in conclusion, this article argues the importance of globalization in shaping domestic politics and managing welfare expectations.
2017	Korea's growth-driven trade policies: Inclusive or exclusive?We attempted to find whether the Korea's growth-driven trade policies during the period of its industrialisation has contributed to output growth together with income distribution by qualitatively analysing the performance of trade policies interacting with the multilateral trading system over time. In addition, we conducted a regression analysis to investigate the effect of Korea's trade growth on inclusive growth during its industrialisation period covering the period of 1976?2011. We found that the recent reform policies reported in the WTO's Trade policy review for Korea in 2016 have attempted to achieve more balanced distribution of gains from trade but not enough to lead the Korean economy to a well-balanced welfare state. More specifically, we found the positive effects of international trade on inclusive growth driven by strong output growth effect, not by the effect on income distribution. Even though income distribution measured by Gini indices has been worsened after the East Asian financial crisis, we could not find significant evidence that Korea's rapid international trade growth has been responsible for the deteriorating income inequality.
2017	Political leadership and ‘non-traditional’ development cooperationThis article explores the relationships between (so-called) ‘non-traditional’ development cooperation (NTDC) and political leadership. Using the case studies of Brazil and South Korea, we propose that certain emblematic elements of NTDC discourse and practice can act to influence the relationship with political leaders in particular ways. These are (a) elevated language of affect, (b) interleaving of personal biographies with the developmental trajectories of states, (c) the use of NTDC to legitimise domestic policies and promote domestic political leadership, (d) the prominence of presidential diplomacy and (e) the challenges confronting rapidly expanding domestic development cooperation institutions and systems.
2017	Asymmetry in the fly-paper effect of the national subsidy in KoreaNowadays, Korean central government has concentrated increasing attention on welfare policy. Welfare payment which is delivered by local government relies on the national subsidy. The national subsidy, however, is a kind of conditional grants which is needed to match some financial resource of local governments. For this reason, the fiscal conditions of local governments may become worse off, as the amount of national subsidy increases. This phenomenon is called the ‘fly-paper effect’, and may be caused inefficiency of the intergovernmental grants. In this paper, we test whether there is any fly-paper effect in the national subsidy and, then, the asymmetry in the fly-paper effect.
2017	Saemaul Undong Revisited: A Case of State?Society Dynamics in Social Capital Mobilisation, Focusing on the Role of Local Leaders in South Korea of the 1970sThis study aims at a re-interpretation of the Saemaul Undong of the 1970s in South Korea. The study departs from the usual understanding of the ‘Korean miracle’ led by a strong state leadership, but emphasises the role of society, here represented by Saemaul Leaders as middle agents of change, and their roles of ‘bonding’ and ‘linking’ social capital, within and beyond communities. From this, communities are no longer simply recipients of, or followers to, the central leadership, but they turn out to be active participants and, in fact, leaders of rural community development. Copyright ⓒ 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2017	Teaching Development Studies in Japan: Navigating Between Eastern and Western Discourses of DevelopmentThis paper examines how development studies teachers in Japan are caught between Western and Eastern discourses of development amidst the changing political and economic realities unfolding in East Asia. The generally weak involvement of anthropologists in development studies teaching results in the preoccupation of Japan's development community with the task of uncovering the country's unique development experience distinct from the Western countries'. The paper argues that development studies institutions in Japan should become more sensitised to their identity as a source of discourse and that students doing development studies there should be taught to discern the competing Eastern and Western discourses of international development. Copyright ⓒ 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2017	The impact of city epidemics on rural labor market: The Korean Middle East Respiratory Syndrome caseThis study compared the changes in employment in urban areas in Korea, where a large number of people were quarantined by the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome epidemic, to those in rural areas, where only a small number of people were quarantined using the difference-in-difference approach. The results indicate that the urban labor market experienced a direct effect in terms of a reduction in employment of the group vulnerable to the epidemic while the rural labor market experienced an indirect effect on its economy through a reduction in employment resulting from a decline in consumption and leisure activities. If one looks into the employment in the accommodation and leisure industry, which sustained the most severe blow, dropped to its lowest level right after the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome outbreak. The rural leisure and accommodation industries are highly likely to be dependent on consumption and spending from urban areas. The results suggest that the rural labor market was influenced by the spillover/external effects caused by behavioral changes among people in urban areas due to fear of infection. Thus, this empirical analysis can be used to customize policy to support regions that can be negatively impacted by spillovers due to epidemic in order to respond against economic stresses.
2017	Numeracy in early modern Korea, Japan, and China: The age-heaping approachThis study first draws on a unique data set, hojok (household registers), to estimate numeracy levels in Korea from the period 1550?1630. We add evidence from Japan and China from the early modern period until 1800 to obtain human capital estimates for East Asia. We find that numeracy was high by global standards, even considering the potential sources of upward bias inherent in the data. Therefore, the unusually high level of numeracy in East Asia in the early 21st century was already present in the early modern period, with implications for our understanding of Asian growth processes.
2017	ICT and Human Capital Spillover Effects in Achieving Sustainable East Asian Knowledge-Based EconomiesThis study assesses the impact of information and communications technology (ICT) and human capital spillover effects on productivity on selected five countries of Association of Southeast Asian Nations, (ASEAN5), Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand, plus three East Asian Countries (China, Japan, and South Korea). The factors identified as inducing productivity of ASEAN-5 + 3 are the single contributions of physical capital, labor, ICT, human capital, and the instantaneous contribution of the quality of these factors. That is articulated as the total factor productivity . The study contributes to the knowledge by using three variations of extensive and intensive growth theories (such as output model, labor productivity, and capital productivity). In this respect, the results show that the productivity growth of ASEAN 5 is an input driven; however, China has overtaken the second largest economy position in the world and emerged as productivity-driven nation that attracted multination company investment. Meanwhile, Japan and South Korean model has constructed global companies that help them to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
2017	Effects of foreign and domestic economic policy uncertainty shocks on South KoreaThis paper investigates the effects of foreign and domestic economic policy uncertainty shocks on South Korea via structural VARs. The results show that both foreign and domestic policy uncertainty shocks exert negative and significant impacts on South Korea. Foreign economic policy uncertainty shocks are found to be more dominant than domestic economic policy uncertainty shocks in influencing the Korean output. The results also indicate that economic policy uncertainty that originates from foreign countries is a significant source of disturbance to the Korean economy, but domestic policy uncertainty plays a rather limited role in explaining Korean business fluctuations.
2017	Fiscal financing and the efficacy of fiscal policy in Korea: An empirical assessment with comparison to the U.S. evidenceThis paper aims to assess the empirical implications of fiscal financing in Korea and study how they differ from those of the U.S. We estimate two versions of the dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model?a small open economy (SOE) model for Korea and its closed economy counterpart for the U.S.?in which the former nests the latter as a special case. The fiscal policy specification posits that government spending, lump-sum transfers, and distortionary taxation on labor income, capital income and consumption expenditures respond to the level of government debt and the state of economic activity. Analysis of the data from 2000 to 2015 shows that distortionary capital taxes play a critical role in stabilizing government debt in the U.S., whereas non-distorting fiscal instruments are the primary means of fiscal adjustment in Korea. Regarding the magnitude of debt-financed fiscal stimuli, the substantial trade openness of Korea is significant in that it produces relatively smaller government spending and transfer multipliers compared to the U.S.
2017	Has China Displaced its Competitors in High-tech Trade?This paper empirically investigated the extent to which China displaced its competitors in high-tech exports using disaggregated data for the period 1992?2013. To address the endogeneity problem, we used a comprehensive set of instruments for Chinese high-tech exports in relevant markets, including China's GDP and distances to those markets. Results of our IV regressions revealed that in most of the high-tech sectors, Chinese exports had displaced the exports of its developing competitors such as India, South American exporters like Brazil and Mexico, and South-East Asian countries like Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam, especially in the period prior to the 2007?08 global financial crisis. Yet, Chinese exports had been associated with more high-tech exports of developed exporters like OECD countries, South Korea and Japan. Our findings suggest that while China became the world's top high-tech exporter, its high-tech exported products had been substitutes to those of other developing and emerging economies but complementary to that of developed economies.
2017	Trade-off between creativity and productivity in technology-based SMEs performance: policy implications in South KoreaThe digital revolution has impacted the study of innovation in organizations in such a way that research on organizational ambidexterity needs a more phenomenon-driven approach. In light of this identified need, this article examines the performance of small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in South Korea based on their balance in exploration and exploitation activities. A 2 (explorative: hi, low) × 2 (exploitative: hi, low) conceptual framework is introduced to depict four types of combined ambidexterity in firms and hypothesize that short- and long-term performances vary among these types of firms. Data from more than 2800 hi-tech manufacturing SMEs in South Korea were collected to empirically test the conceptual framework. The results confirmed the hypothesized difference in performance. Firms indeed vary in degrees of explorative and exploitative innovation and thus have positive but imbalanced impact on their performance. Firms that are high (low) in both explorative and exploitative innovation perform best (worst) in longer-term growth. Firms that tilt toward exploitative innovation perform best in short-term profit. The article concludes with important managerial and policy implications.
2017	Exploring international linkages using generalised connectedness measures: The case of KoreaKorea is a textbook example of a small open economy which is susceptible to conditions overseas but cannot affect them itself. Policymakers in Korea would therefore naturally benefit from an enriched understanding of the connections that exist between the Korean and global economies. We provide a detailed summary of these linkages using the generalised connectedness methodology introduced by Greenwood-Nimmo et al. (2015). Among our principal findings is the observation that domestic conditions are only generally important in the short to medium term, with overseas conditions exerting a dominant influence on Korea's economic prospects in the long run. The economy which exerts the strongest effect on Korea is the US, with a considerable role also played by global energy markets. Furthermore, we find that the global financial crisis is associated with greater connectedness of the Korean economy with advanced economies and its reduced connectedness with emerging economies.
2017	Globalisation and Trade Liberalisation in Supporting GVCs Upgrade: The Case of the Republic of KoreaPurpose: The paper aims to get more insight about the importance of globalization and regional integration for GVCs upgrade and economic growth. Design/methodology/approach: It uses South Korea as an illustrative example of pursuing sustained economic growth via economic globalization and moving up the value chains. ”It provides answers to two questions. First, how did South Korea manage to achieve economic growth via moving up the value chains? Second, what are the governmental efforts on globalization and trade liberalization that have contributed to this success? Findings: Among other factors, its success can be seen as a result of a combination of domestic development strategy and policies and its efforts to create a “development-friendly” global and regional circumstance via strengthening the economic ties with main powers, expanding the FTAs network, and deepening integration into Factory Asia. It is of South Korea’s interest to push forward the progress of regional integration Originality/value: Many countries have successfully got rid of poverty by participating international production sharing, but only few of them have managed to move further and eventually upgrade to be an advance economy.”This case study of South Korea gives us more insight about the importance of globalization and trade liberalization in supporting GVCs upgrade.
2017	Economic policy uncertainty and stock market returns in PacificRim countries: Evidence based on a Bayesian panel VAR modelThis paper examines the role of economic policy uncertainty (EPU) on stock market returns for six countries (Australia, Canada, China, Japan, Korea and the US), based on a panel VAR model estimated using stochastic search specification selection (SSSS). In order to account for international uncertainty spillovers, the impact of home country EPU shocks and US EPU shocks are considered over the period from January 1998 to December 2014. The main results suggest that stock market returns have been negatively affected by the increased policy uncertainty levels observed during the last decade. Furthermore, when uncertainty spillovers are considered, a significant negative relationship is found between stock market returns and US EPU shocks in all countries except in Australia. This could be explained by favorable opportunities that investors gain by investing in this country, after an increase in policy uncertainty levels in the US economy.
2017	Does labor legislation benefit workers? Well-being after an hours reductionAre workers in modern economies working “too hard”?would they be better off in an equilibrium with fewer work hours? We examine changes in life satisfaction of Japanese and Koreans over a period when hours of work were cut exogenously because employers suddenly faced an overtime penalty effective at lower standard hours. Using repeated cross sections we show that life satisfaction increased relatively among those workers most likely to have been affected by the legislation, with the same finding using Korean longitudinal data. In a household model estimated over the Korean cross-section data we find some evidence that a reduction in the husband's workhours increased his wife's well-being. These results are consistent with the claim that legislated reductions in work hours can increase workers’ utility.
2017	Multifactor CES general equilibrium: Models and applicationsSector-specific multifactor CES elasticities of substitution and the corresponding productivity growth are jointly measured by regressing the growth of per-factor cost shares against the growth of factor prices. We use linked input-output tables for Japan and the Republic of Korea as the data source for factor price and cost shares in two temporally distant states. We then construct a multisectoral general equilibrium model using the system of estimated CES unit cost functions and evaluate the economy-wide propagation of an exogenous productivity stimulus in terms of welfare. Further, we examine the differences between models based on a priori elasticities such as Leontief and Cobb-Douglas.
2017	Trade Liberalisation and the Wage Skill Premium in Korean Manufacturing Plants: Do Plants’ R&amp;D and Investment Matter?This paper examines the effects of output and input tariff reductions on within-plant wage skill premium in Korean manufacturing plants. We find evidence that output tariff reduction interacts differently with plants’ R&D and investment behaviours, respectively, to affect wage skill premium. More specifically, output tariff reduction increases wage skill premium mostly in R&D-performing plants while reducing it mostly in plants making positive facility investments. While there is weak evidence that input tariff reduction increases wage skill premium, no such interactive effects are found. One story behind our results is that, although both R&D and facility investments may respond to changes in profit opportunities due to output tariff reductions, R&D raises the relative demand for the skilled workers while facility investment, an activity of increasing production capacity, raises the relative demand for the unskilled workers.
2017	Cause for optimism? Financial sanctions and the rise of the Sino-North Korean border economyThis article critically engages with recent arguments that financial sanctions are capable of overcoming the shortcomings of traditional trade sanctions as well as more targeted ‘smart sanctions.’ Much of the existing analysis of financial sanctions cites as evidence of their success the case of the US Treasury's 2005 accusations against Macao's Banco Delta Asia of facilitating North Korean money laundering. We argue, however, that analysis of the broader impact of financial sanctions on North Korea's principle bilateral economic relationship, namely the Sino-North Korean border economy, reveals that such measures have merely served to increase the scope of evasive economic activity. In particular, financial sanctions have meant that methods of trade settlement in the border economy are based primarily on cash and barter, with minimal recourse to the official banking system. This raises questions not only regarding the effectiveness of financial sanctions but also the degree to which they serve to provoke counter-responses that actively undermine the broader objectives pursued by sender states. Through examining the case of Sino-North Korean border economy, this article contributes to a more comprehensive understanding of the shortcomings of financial sanctions as a tool of foreign policy.
2017	Dissecting the Effects of Terms of Trade Shocks on the Korean EconomyMicro- as well as macro-level analyses on the terms of trade (TOT) for Korea are conducted. We demonstrate that the deteriorated TOT since the mid-1990s are largely attributable to declines in export prices of manufacturing goods and surges in energy import prices. A further investigation using a vector autoregressive (VAR) model identified by sign restrictions on impulse responses suggests that the structural innovation that reduces export prices and increases import prices is the most significant driver of the TOT fluctuations in Korea. Although the shock deteriorates the TOT, it is clearly associated with an expansionary effect on output, which is more pronounced at longer horizons.
2017	Macroeconomic Dynamics in Korea during and after the Global Financial Crisis: A Bayesian DSGE ApproachWe estimate a medium-scale DSGE model, including a financial accelerator and the search and matching framework in labor markets, for the Korean economy, using the Bayesian technique. The estimated model shows that the recent sluggishness in GDP growth can be explained by slow technology growth, and the decline in CPI inflation is affected by a falling markup in domestic homogeneous goods production and a negative intertemporal consumption preference. Although wages, unemployment, and total labor hours are influenced by various factors, households' weak bargaining power causes a slow recovery in wages, while pushing the unemployment rate down. There was also a spillover from non-big-5 to big-5 firms during the global financial crisis, while monetary and fiscal policy has been mostly conservative in the post-crisis period.
2017	Comparing Taiwan's foreign aid to Japan, South Korea and DACTaiwan has been all but left out of comparative studies of foreign aid donors. This article places Taiwan's aid program in context, through a comparison with its East Asian neighbors?Japan and Korea?and the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) donors as group. It finds that while Taiwan differs from Japan and Korea in key respects, there are also notable similarities between the three in relation to other DAC donors.
2017	Financial Development and Investment in KoreaIn this study, we investigate whether financial development could have a positive effect on the real economy in Korea through the investment channel. After deriving an investment function in which a firm’s investment is subject to financial restriction, we analyze whether financial development has reduced a firm’s financial restriction and analyze whether financial development has reduced a firm’s financial restriction by expanding available external financing that the firm faces. Using firm-level data in Korea from 1994 to 2011, we find that financial development affects a firm’s investment by reducing the firm’s financial restrictions. However, the effects of financial development on a firm’s financial restrictions are varied by industry or firm size. We also find that the financial crisis could deteriorate the effect of financial development on corporate investment.
2017	Knowledge Economy Gaps, Policy Syndromes, and Catch-Up Strategies: Fresh South Korean Lessons to AfricaAfrica’s overall knowledge index fell between 2000 and 2009. South Korea’s economic miracle is largely due to a knowledge-based development strategy that holds valuable lessons for African countries in their current pursuit towards knowledge economies. Using updated data (1996?2010), this paper presents fresh South Korean lessons to Africa by assessing the knowledge economy (KE) gaps, deriving policy syndromes, and providing catch-up strategies. The 53 peripheral African countries are decomposed into fundamental characteristics of wealth, legal origins, regional proximity, oil-exporting, political stability, and landlockedness. The World Bank’s four KE components are used: education, innovation, information and communication technology (ICT), and economic incentives and institutional regime. Absolute beta and sigma convergence techniques are employed as empirical strategies. With the exception of ICT for which catch-up is not very apparent, in increasing order, it is visible in innovation, economic incentives, education, and institutional regime. The speed of catch-up varies between 8.66 and 30.00?% per annum with respective time to full or 100?% catch-up of 34.64 and 10?years. Based on the trends and dynamics in the KE gaps, policy syndromes and compelling catch-up strategies are discussed. Issues standing on the way to KE in Africa are dissected with great acuteness before South Korean relevant solutions are provided to both scholars and firms. The paper is original in its provision of practical policy initiatives drawn from the Korean experience to African countries embarking on a transition to KE.
2017	Learning from Global Pacesetters to Build the Country Innovation EcosystemCountries with advanced innovation systems are consolidating and optimizing their National Innovation Ecosystem (NIE) frameworks. In contrast, emerging economies are formulating their own NIE frameworks in order to capitalize and build on the nation’s advantages to create self-sustaining innovation capabilities to compete internationally. The challenge is not to copy the best performers but to define their own original innovation policy, taking into account specific strengths, weaknesses, priorities, and cultural and institutional traditions. This paper presents detailed study cases for the following three countries with high level of innovation: Finland, South Korea, and Singapore. It summarizes each country’s experiences and key findings. The paper concludes with a set of pillars to be taken into consideration when designing NIE or revising an existing one to encompass the realm of activities needed for a country to reach its goals.
2017	Growth convergence and the middle-income trapEmerging market economies in East Asia have followed a similar growth path (growth convergence) from a low-income, high-growth state to a middle-income, middle-growth state through industrialization. The economic development of Japan was followed by the “four tigers” (Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei,China) in the 1970s; and subsequently by members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in the 1980s and the People’s Republic of China in the 1990s and 2000s. The growth rates of Asian economies are slowing over time and may fall to advanced economy levels before incomes fully catch up with the advanced economies. This is defined as the middle-income trap in the paper. This paper proposes that there exist three convergence paths in Asia: low income, middle income, and high income. Economies need to shift from one convergence path to a higher one by implementing economic and political reforms that can generate innovation. Without reform, economies may fall into a low- or middle-income trap.
2017	The Potential Role of South-East Asia in North Korea’s Economic Reforms: The Cases of ASEAN, Vietnam and SingaporeThe process of engaging the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea stands at a crossroads that presents challenges as well as opportunities. We believe that the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) can indirectly help to facilitate North Korean reforms in three ways: (i) Political: via ASEAN’s ability to function as a neutral facilitator of dialogue; (ii) Economic: as models of economic reform for North Korea (particularly based on the experiences of Singapore and Vietnam); (iii) Social: the Choson Exchange based in Singapore is an ideal location for enabling North Koreans to study abroad and thus gain a greater understanding of other countries.
2017	Economic growth and income inequality in the Asia-Pacific region: A comparative study of China, Japan, South Korea, and the United StatesThis paper builds an inequality-growth-redistribution nexus, and applies the Engle?Granger two-step ECM approach to estimate the long-run and short-run relationships between inequality and growth for four economies: China, Japan, South Korea, and the United States. Our estimation results support the S-shaped curve hypothesis relating GDP per capita to inequality with different starting points for the four economies. For the reverse relationship, we find a positive causal relationship for China, Japan, and the United States, indicating that increased income inequality spurred economic growth. In addition, we find mixed results on the effect of trade openness on inequality and growth. Trade openness reduced inequality in the United States and Japan, worsened it in China and had no significant effect in South Korea. In the inequality-GDP per capita relationship, exports provided an impetus to economic growth for Japan. As for redistribution, although fiscal redistributive measures reduced inequality in Japan, they played no major role in the other three countries. With regard to the inequality-GDP per capita relationship, all countries except for China show a negative effect of fiscal redistribution on GDP per capita.
2017	Utility model patent regime “strength” and technological development: Experiences of China and other East Asian latecomersThis paper analyzes how strategic calibration of utility model patent regimes ? which provide a type of patent right that is distinct from invention patents and is far less studied in the literature ? over time is intended to facilitate technological development. To do this, the paper develops what appear to be the first indexes of utility model patent regime “strength” (divided into “strictness” and “appropriability” indexes), which it tabulates for mainland China, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan per every year from the time of inception of their laws governing utility models (the first of which was in 1905) till 2016. It then analyzes these indexes via fixed effects regressions and case studies. The results show that East Asian latecomers instituted utility model patent regimes that were less strict and offered less appropriability during earlier stages of economic catch-up, likely in order to facilitate technological learning. Subsequently, the strictness of the regimes was increased as knowledge accumulation and, to some extent, technological capabilities increased and, in mainland China's case especially, as patent quality problems were experienced. It is also found that increasing the strictness of utility model patent regimes may reduce patenting in the short-term, but not the long-term. Six propositions are formulated, including the overall conclusion that successful latecomers seem to have pursued a dynamic catch-up strategy of transitioning from imitative to more sophisticated technological development by increasing both the strictness and appropriability-strength of their utility model patent regimes in conjunction with increasing knowledge accumulation and, to some extent, technological capabilities. It is suggested that mainland China might benefit from further increasing the strictness of its utility model patent regime in the future.
2017	Stock market development and economic growth: The case of MSCI emerging market index countriesAim of this study is to empirically investigate the role of stock market development on economic growth of the emerging markets listed in MSCI Emerging Market Index using annual data over the period from 1995 to 2012. We employ Panel Data Analysis to examine this relationship. The MSCI Emerging Market Index is a free float-adjusted market capitalization index that is designed to measure equity market performance of emerging markets. The MSCI Emerging Market Index consists of the following 19 emerging market country indices: Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Morocco, Mexico, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Russia, South Africa, Korea, Thailand, and Turkey. Among the stock market development indicators used in the study, stock market capitalization ratio is used as a proxy for market size while value traded ratio and turnover ratio are used as proxies for market liquidity. The individual indicators of stock market development reveal that the market capitalization and turnover ratios robustly and positively influence the level of economic growth.
2017	Is the link between the real and financial sectors affected by mechanism of governance? A cross-country analysis in AsiaIn the post modern economic thinking, the real and financial sectors of an economy are found to be interlinked. The magnitude of such a linkage between the real and financial sectors can further be fuelled by the mechanisms of governance of an economy. It is expected that good governance always works as a catalyst for an economy to grow and develop in different aspects. The present study tries to examine how do the World Bank governance indicators influence or get influenced by the chain of interplays between the real and financial sectors measured by the domestic credit to GDP ratio (CGDP) in some selected Asian economies for the period 1997-2014. The results show that, in most cases, there is no such interplay between themselves. The countries where some sorts of causations are observed, like that in India, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, governance indicators work a little. In most cases, the demand side approach, that is the CGDP ratios, work as the catalyst to the ways of governing of the selected economies, works significantly. On the other hand, the countries like S. Korea and Bangladesh do not experience any sort of causation; governance indicators do not work at all for them. So, the World Bank generated governance indicators is not general, rather partial in affecting the credit to GDP ratio of the countries.
2017	A ground-up "Quaternary" innovation strategy for South Korea using entrepreneurial ecosystem platformsThis paper offers an account of the recent economic slowdown in the growth trajectory formerly enjoyed by South Korea as one of the first "Asian Tigers". Indicators are provided that, unlike the others, Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan that have continued their upward profile, South Korea has stagnated. It is argued that the others and some more recent Asian growth economies have moved upwards to higher value, high skill and high profitability levels and deindustrialising as they did so. This even applies to recent breakthrough economies like China and Vietnam. In each case, "financialization" has been an important element in the growth of the Quaternary economy, even in such relative newcomers as Vietnam, where privatization of services has attracted private equity and other foreign direct investment financiers. Thus manufacturing is less pronounced than it was. Meanwhile, South Korea has a weak international presence of banks and other financial sectors because of the domestic focus in its indigenous growth model. Other weaknesses of closed versus open innovation and "cronyism" at the behest of the Chaebol system can be laid at the door of South Korea's traditional conglomerates. A different model of "thin globalisation" led by knowledge-intensive high-tech, biotech and cleantech with prodigious financialization is characteristic of the new fast-growth regions and countries elsewhere, notably Israel, Silicon Valley and Cambridge. Here flattened hierarchies, reliable networking, and "crossover" innovation are pronounced and from which South Korean industrialists and policymakers could usefully learn to recover past growth performance.
2017	The effect of audit hours and firm characteristics on earnings qualityThe main purpose of this study is to examine the effect of audit hours and firm characteristics on earnings quality over the period 2014-2015 in Korea, where audit firms are required to disclose audit hours by personnel level in their audit reports. The audit hours are measured as both total hours and hours by accounting professional position level. In public accounting firms, professional positions can be categorized as engagement quality reviewers, partners, registered certified public accountants (CPAs), apprentice CPAs and information technology (IT) experts. The proxy of earnings quality is discretionary accruals (DA) estimated using the modified Jones model. To test our hypothesis, we specify a stochastic frontier function in which output is DA and inputs are audit hours and firm characteristics. The results are summarised as follows. First, we verify that lower DA (i.e., higher earnings quality) is positively related to high total audit hours and audit hours incurred by each of engagement quality reviewers, partners, CPAs and IT experts. Second, the magnitude of scale economies in the stochastic frontier is less than one, signifying that there are decreasing returns to scale in audit activity. Our analysis reveals that total hours as well as audit hours by engagement quality reviewers, partners, CPAs and IT experts have positive relations with earnings quality. The empirical results are consistent with firms reporting high quality earnings when audit efforts are high.
2017	Official development assistance in the eye of the participants: Adapting process approach theory to Korea's ODA in RwandaThis paper calls for the adaptation of a more flexible approach, the Process approach, to Official Development Assistance (ODA) projects initiated by the Korean government and Korean corporations. ODA has been around for decades providing aid to developing countries under the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC). Despite such long history of development aid, Republic of Korea's ODA is relatively new only joining DAC in 2010. As a new member of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) there is evidence of a lack of development thinking in its ODA projects as projects are carried out in traditional Blueprint approaches. This paper introduces Process approach theory as a way to complement conventional Blueprint approach to increase sustainability, impact and ownership of development projects. Most recent focus of ODA is on 'Aid Effectiveness' and there has already been much criticism on its 'effectiveness' to developing countries. However, 'Aid Effectiveness' does put focus back on the recipient stressing 'ownership', alignment', 'harmonisation', 'managing results', 'mutual accountability' as key words. This goes much in line with the process approach that this paper suggests to adapt in Korea's ODA projects as a complementary approach. Engagement in projects seen in the 'Rwanda ICT Training Centre project' of the case study, that combines infrastructure and education, traditional blueprint approach needs to be complemented by a 'Process Approach' of which there is still a lack of understanding among Korean project managers and Korean bureaucrats. Results of the research methodology shows that not all of the 'Process Approach' can be adapted to Korea's ODA projects but more of a 'Managerialist' approach, for example a 'Process in blueprint Approach' can be implemented providing some flexibility to its projects and providing opportunities to think about sustainability in the eyes of the participants.
2017	Fetal exposure to the 1918 influenza pandemic in Colonial Korea and human capital developmentThe influenza pandemic of 1918 drastically affected colonial Korea infecting approximately 7.4 million people (44.3% of the total population) and killing approximately 140,000. This study examines the effect of fetal exposure to the pandemic on educational attainment, specifically, years of schooling and literacy among the 1910 to 1929 birth cohort found in the 1960 Korean population census. Using the difference-in-differences approach, we found that fetal exposure substantially deteriorated educational attainment particularly among those born in provinces severely affected by influenza.
2017	Student customized creative education model based on open innovationAs the creative economy has developed, the university has been given an important role of nurturing creative talents that companies desire to have. The most important objective in creative education is to provide a support system and a good environment for fostering creativity. This will help students in obtaining results and profits through experimenting as well as gaining experience in each step of the process in performing innovation by developing their ideas through utilizing self-directed information and knowledge. There are various creative economy-related businesses being conducted in Korea, which have been supported by the government since 2008, the supporting environment has been constructed to utilize the internal and external systems of universities. However, there are a number of cases where supporting projects that are possible to utilize are overlapping each other or support for projects is not available, as these sorts of supporting systems are designed according to the purpose and drawing performances for each business. For this, creating a "student customized innovation model" has been attempted by linking internal and external support for universities with a process of steps from design thinking to commercialization. The education model in universities should be established by balancing the roles and needs of enterprises, universities, and governments. An open innovation based system should be built for students who are being nurtured the university. The research method for this is as follows: First, the research aim was determined by considering the relationship between creative economy and the concept of open innovation. Second, a new model was developed by analyzing and doing case investigation of university convergence education programs that nurtured creativity. Third, this proposed model (CHEESE program (CHEESE Program stands for Creativity Human Emotional Experience Solution Evaluation)) was customized and designed based on the linkages between the creative education programs and open-innovation. Then, the outcomes from the project's three years test run were analyzed and organized. The development of the model was intended for design-engineering students based on integrating design-engineering thinking and activities in the process of innovation. The main objective of this study was to create a model (CHEESE program) based on the needs-centered activities that students wanted. This model has been restructured by linking the model with internal and external supporting projects of the university. The model has achieved continuous growth for 3 years and the performance has been improved in various aspects, such as patents, competition awards, and exhibition presentations. This project has drawn meaningful results in terms of experiencing the whole process of innovation, from the stage of determining an idea to making a prototype and commercializing it thorough exchanges with the internal and external systems of the university.
2017	Science and economic development in countries of the east and the west (financial and economic resources)The article deals with the comparison between groups of countries based on two indicators: GDP per capita and a percentage of expenditures on research and development  in GDP. The data are given on 103 states and territories where statistical indicators were available. Despite the fact that in general, statistical data confirm an overall upward drift in expenditures on R&D as GDP per capita grows, it is shown that there are multiple cases stepping out of this trend. Two most populated countries of the world are among them: China and India, including 40-50% of the world population. Special focus of the article is on China whose example shows that the strategy of an accelerated R&D development in conditions of high economic growth rates within 10-15 years, may start even in a group of "lower-middle income" countries, and implementation of this strategy in R&D can provide a real breakthrough with achievement of indicators typical not for developing countries but for developed economies (for instance, average indicators for the Euro-zone states). The researchers make an attempt to determine an optimum level of R&D appropriations by arithmetic calculations based on direct comparisons of such indicators as GDP per capita and the share of expenditures on R&D. However, the examples of China, India, South Korea, also Russia and, on the other side, a specified group euphemistically termed as "Oil and Gas Countries" highlight the fact that such comparisons could be useful, meaningful, cognitive, though not regulatory or, much less, directorial.
2017	Asia: On the way to consumer societyAmid sluggish global trade growth and lower export revenues most of Asian countries search for new drivers of regional development and move from outward-looking, export-oriented development toward higher domestic demand and final consumption expenditures. Packages of macro-prudential reforms include monetary easing and stimulating fiscal policy. The research aims at conducting complex qualitative and quantitative analysis of key measures, taken by governments and monetary authorities to stimulate domestic demand. 11 countries, including 7 countries of South-East Asia (Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Brunei Darussalam), China, Japan, Republic of Korea and India are objects of the research. The author explores intensity of reforms, and conducts quantitative assessment of their potential influence on final consumption expenditures in every particular country. Such an approach allows conducting comparative analysis of consumer potential among Asian countries, revealing those of them, which may become the most successful on the way to consumption-led growth. Quantitative analysis based on log-log transformation of linear regression model helps to reveal that fiscal instruments can have greater influence on final consumption expenditure compared with monetary ones (interest rates and reserve requirement ratios manipulations). China, Thailand and Republic of Korea are among those countries, which conduct supportive fiscal policies using various instruments (fiscal stimuli) and tend to monetary easing, stimulating private household expenditures as well. China will remain a key driver of regional consumptionled development in both medium- and long-run due to substantial population, high share of working-age population (despite downward trend since 2012) and intensive stimulating reforms, resulting in rapid growth of the middle class. Nevertheless, it has been proved empirically that rising incomes may transform into rapid growth of savings, which will surpass increase in national consumption. At the same time, Thailand and Republic of Korea may become those countries, which contribution to regional consumption may increase substantially by 2020-2025 due to intensive consumption stimulating reforms and their greater influence on final consumption expenditures.
2017	Eurasian economic union and Asian countries energy Super-Ring: Cooperation outlookThe authors investigate the prospects for cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and the countries North-East Asia concerning formation of a trans-border energy super-ring. The paper starts from the analysis of energy capabilities of the EAEU member states and their main macroeconomic indicators. It is shown that according to the indicators the EAEU is the second largest integration union in the world after the European Union. A very important factor for the EAEU is to develop not only the common internal energy market and energy union, but also the development and implementation of a common energy export policy. The authors consider the most likely scenarios for the development in key areas of cooperation between EAEU states and energy markets participants in Europe and Asia. It is noted that the formation of new integration associations under the patronage of the United States (the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Trans-Atlantic Trade and Investment Partnership) is forcing the states of EAEU to formulate a balanced geopolitical response jointly with their neighbours in the North-East Asian part of the Eurasia. Today, there are several integration paths that complement each other and allow to implement many projects in different spheres according to the principle of mutual benefit. This primarily concerns energy cooperation between the states of EAEU, Japan, South Korea, China and Mongolia in order to create energy super-ring which would connect the territories of these states.
2017	The reaction of political systems of pacific Asia countries on ongoing changes and new challengesWe offer our readers report on discussion at "round table" that took place in editorial office of "World Economy and International Relations" February 28, 2017. Participants: Borokh O.N., Cand. Sci. (Econ.); Vinogradov A.V., Dr. Sci. (Political Sciences); Davydov O.V.; Kanaev E.A., Dr. Sci. (History), prof.; Karneev A.N., Cand. Sci. (History); Leontieva E.L., Cand. Sci. (Econ.); Lomanov A.V., Dr. Sci. (History), prof.; Mikheev V.V., acad. of RAS; Rogozhina N.G., Dr. Sci. (Political Sciences); Ryabov A.V., Cand. Sci. (History); Fedorovsky A.N., Dr. Sci. (Econ.); Shvydko V.G., Cand. Sci. (Econ.). Here we publish report of discussion devoted comparative analysis of changes in political systems of Pacific Asian countries in the last years. Participants of debates considered experience of China, South and North Korea, Japan, ASEAN states as a whole, Thailand and Vietnam as well. The report will be published in two issues of WEIR.
2017	An empirical study of global business strategy of Korean smes in the era of multi- FTAs and mega-FTAs: Focusing on VietnamThe central goal of this paper is to address the question of how FTA and FTA utilization factors influence Korean SMEs' global business strategy against multi-FTAs and mega-FTAs. First, this study conducted in-depth interviews with Korean SMEs and professional corporate service firms, which serve those Korean SMEs. The interviews were conducted through meeting, conference call, or email interview. To support the in-depth interviews, literature analysis was conducted beforehand. It was found that Korean SMEs have expanded global presence amongst Korea, China, and ASEAN countries such as Vietnam to enhance global value chain under dynamically changing global business environment. Second, it was also found that, in front of multi-FTAs and mega-FTAs, Korean SMEs strengthened localization in order to both increase productivity and maximize the benefit of FTAs in global production and marketing. Third, global business system has been upgraded and incorporated into global value chain with Korean MNCs. In sum, Korean SMEs have deployed sequential development of global business system as follow. In Stage 1, Korean SMEs enter China at early stage of globalization, testing global value chain system by taking part of each or partial value chain; In Stage 2, they shift into Vietnam, and/or other substitute countries for China, investing on production capacities and expanding global value chain system; In Stage 3, they expand investment in Vietnam, and/or other substitute countries, to localize the supply of raw and/or subsidiary materials, upgrading the global value chain system. In this regard, the Stage 3 denotes the dynamics and dilemma of global business strategy by Korean SMEs, which struggle to catch up with mega trends of global business environment currently arising from the complexity of multi-FTAs and the advent of mega-FTAs.
2017	Study on the commercial strategies from changes in retail business district in Japan based on the cases of establishment for formats of retail business in corresponding with small-scaled business districtsThe objective of this paper is to analyze a topic of small-scaled retail business district in Japan with similar industrial structure with Korea and to review the areas for implications in the development of distribution and, particularly, retail business in Korea. This paper analyzes strategic behaviors developed by retail business in Japan in circumstances where business district has been reduced from decrease in the size and changes in the market. Chapter 2 identifies factors for regulating the scale of business district including purchasing behavior of consumers, economic situations, strategic behaviors in retail business, and legal regulations from administration and analyzes current status in reduced business district. Chapter 3 focuses on relevant factors for reducing the scale of business district specifically verifying environment including societies and areas as a background of strategic behaviors in retail business and interaction with reduced business district. Chapter 4 identifies current status of cases for establishing format in corresponding with small-scaled business district and considers issues in the phenomenon of reduced business district as actual conditions of strategic behaviors in retail business are regarded as the most direct cause for reducing the business district. Hereupon, this paper finds characteristics of distribution in Japan proceeded after bubble economy from establishment of strategic format in retail business was collapsed in the era represented by reduced district business and reviews actual conditions and contents of them.
2017	Reexamination of fiscal policy in a small open economy: The case of KoreaWe empirically estimate the effects of expansionary fiscal policy in Korea to analyze the impacts of the fiscal policy with different exchange rate regime. First, we empirically estimate the Structural VAR to identify the transmission mechanism of major macroeconomic variables from government expenditure shocks in Korea. The government expenditure shocks increase consumption, investment, and GDP. At the same time net exports decrease and foreign exchange rates depreciate in the long run. Second, we set up a small open economy model with financial frictions and discuss the role of financial market frictions in generating a multiplier of government expenditure under PEG and flexible exchange regime. Extended the existing literature on fiscal policy by introducing limited asset market participation and external finance a la Bernanke et al. (1999) into the model. Shown that the multiplier can be larger than one under pegged exchange rate regime, while is smaller than one under flexible exchange rate regime.
2017	Implications of near-autarky for North Korean economyThis paper introduces a notion of near-autarky to describe the following features of North Korean economy: economic sanctions, more than 40 percents of trade dependency, chronic trade deficits, and monopolistic trade with China. The model in this paper is a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium(DSGE) model modified to incorporate the above features. The result show that North Korea have no incentive to deviate from the current situation. And also the fact that North Korea’s biggest trade partner is China weakens the effectiveness of economic sanctions against North Korea.
2017	Development efficiency analysis of public administration informatizationThe article presents the development efficiency analysis in the countries with the Western and Eastern information society development models. The main development factors of public administration informatization are given for the EU, the USA, Japan and South Korea. The Russian Federation informatization is analyzed and the main issues and development directions are defined.
2017	Bond spreads, market integration and contagion in the 2007-2008 crisisYield spreads on sovereign bonds represent market expectations for the economic performance of issuing countries. In the international financial market, yield spreads also reflect the extent to which the issuing countries are integrated into the global market. We analyze market integration and interconnectedness for several countries by studying the characteristics of yield spreads of longterm bonds from December 1, 2006 to March 31, 2010. Our analysis is based on a latent factor model with the following factors: world factor, the regional factor, the country-specific factor, and the US shock. Our results show that there are clear contagion effects of the 2007-2008 crisis, which originated from the U.S., on all emerging economies under consideration. Stronger effects are observed on countries with relatively higher susceptibility to world factors before crisis. Mixed effects of regional factors are shown with similarities and differences across regions and countries. Relatively stronger effects of country-specific factors are shown in Korea, Japan, the U.K., and the U.S.
2017	The effects of applying alternative discounting methods on the economic feasibility test of Free Trade Zone development project: Based on the Korean preliminary feasibility study casesPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to examine the applicability of the alternative way of discounting, such as the hyperbolic discount method, for the economic feasibility test on Free Trade Zone development project that needs intergenerational analysis. Design/methodology/approach: To analyze the effects of applying alternative discounting method in the cost-benefit analysis, this paper uses the hyperbolic discount method and HM-Treasury’s method (Britain), as well as the traditional exponential discount method. Also, this study uses benefit and cost data from the actual feasibility test of the Free Trade Zone development project in Korea, to obtain better policy implication. Findings: For the case of long-term analysis, using the exponential discounting method in the benefit-cost analysis could not give us balanced analytic results, because it discounts too much on future generation’s benefits. In contrast, if we use the hyperbolic discounting method, we could obtain better balanced results since it can control the generational effects. This paper also finds that for the results to be valid, the analysis period must be expanded long enough (a minimum of 100 years). Originality/value: The major findings of this paper confirm the results of previous studies regarding long-term benefit-cost analysis. Also, the result of this paper is properly compatible with the findings of behavioral economics, such as the time inconsistency of preferences. However, no research has been done with the proper length of analytic periods for using hyperbolic discounting yet. To examine this matter, this paper performs benefit-cost analysis with actual data from the feasibility studies in Korea. To the best of the author’s knowledge, this is the first study to find the proper length of analytic periods that can be compatible with the hyperbolic discount method.
2017	Growth versus equity: A CGE analysis for effects of factor-biased technical progress on economic growth and employmentWith factor-biased technical progress described as labor-saving and skill-biased technical changes, there are concerns that technological innovation can lead to unemployment and widen inequality in the economy. This study explores impacts of factor-biased technical changes on the economic system in terms of economic growth, employment, and distribution, using a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. The results show that technological innovation contributes to higher level of economic growth with productivity improvements. However, our analysis suggests that economic growth accompanied by skill- and capital-biased technical progress disproportionately increases demand for capital and high-skilled labor over skilled and unskilled labor. This shift in the value-added composition is found to deepen income inequality, as more people in higher income groups benefit from skill premium and capital earnings. Our results suggest that policymakers should prepare a wide range of policy measures, such as reforms in educational programs and taxation systems, in order to ensure sustainable growth.
2016	How does leverage affect R&amp;D intensity and how does R&amp;D intensity impact on firm value in South Korea?We examine how leverage affects corporate research and development  intensity, as well as examine the impact of R&D on firm value in South Korea, a country in which corporate-funded R&D intensity is one of the highest in the world. Among our main results, we find that growth opportunities have a positive effect on R&D intensity, while leverage has a negative effect on R&D intensity. When leverage is at an extremely high level, the relationship between growth opportunities and R&D intensity turns from positive to negative. Using instrumental variables, we find that R&D generates an increase in firm value.
2016	Exporting and Upgrading of Product Portfolio: Evidence from Korea, Japan and Indonesia*This paper examines the effect of exporting on ‘product portfolio upgrading’ in a plant, using plant?product matched datasets for Korea, Japan and Indonesia. First, we find that a substantial part of aggregate shipments growth is explained by net adding of products for all three countries. Second, export starters are more likely to add products and to change product shares in plants than never exporters. Third, added products tend to have higher product quality than dropped products. Therefore, our results imply that the entry to export markets plays an important role in product portfolio upgrading: the process of reallocation from lower-attribute to higher-attribute products.
2016	Russia-China transboundary region from the perspective of Eurasian projectsThe article analyzes the current status and new development trends in Russian-Chinese transboundary region, which extends to the vast and reach area equal to India. Due to some economical, geographical and psychological reasons, by the beginning of the second decade of 21st century, the two countries' governments could neither effectively explore a huge integrational potential of this transboundary space in order to reinforce economic and humanitarian foundation of Russia-China strategic partnership, nor transform this space into a territory of social stability and economic prosperity. Currently, Moscow and Beijing actively attempt to promote pretentious geo-political and economic projects for greater Eurasia along with their efforts to work out new agendas so as to speed up social and economic development of the Northeast China and the Russian Pacific. In their initial version, these projects have nothing to do with each other. However, the local authorities on both sides of the border actively support such efforts and try to promote their interests within the projects, viewing them as appropriate means to overcome (at least partially) the barriers, which constrain the economic progress of their districts. At the same time, Russian-Chinese transboundary region is becoming an operating juncture of international integration in the eastern part of Eurasia being of keen interest for other Pacific countries, primarily Japan and South Korea. The development and improvement of this region as one of fundamentals for the Russia-China strategic partnership and, simultaneously, a platform of international cooperation in Eastern Eurasia seem to be the only real opportunity not merely to overcome centuries-old backwardness of this periphery, but to make a breakthrough in bilateral relations. The author proposes to abandon the excessive enthusiasm and illusion as concerns the coming "co-junction" in the western part of the continent, and to refocus on the Russian-Chinese pragmatic cooperation in the eastern segment of Eurasia and North Pacific, which have potential to build a new basis for economic and security system of Eastern Eurasia on the platform of interaction between Russia, China and all interested parties.
2016	Development assistance in foreign strategies of China, the republic of Korea and JapanThe article focuses on new trends in development assistance strategies of three Northeast Asian countries: China, Japan and the Republic of Korea. It provides the analysis of key features of China's contemporary foreign aid strategy which is currently based mainly on economic priorities rather than on ideology. Building on post-reform successes in economic development, Beijing is expanding its assistance to African and Asian countries, thus demonstrating the efficiency of China's development model. Moreover, China implements foreign aid programs taking into account the individual recipient countries' priorities and specific features of their economic and social development. The authors gave attention to Beijing's willingness to use soft power tools for promoting aid programs. However, the active government involvement in formulation and implementation of foreign aid programs, as well as the predominance of commercial interests of Chinese businesses, are among the main characteristics which are negatively perceived by developing states. The article also explores Japan's contemporary official development assistance (ODA) policies, which have been changing following the transformation of Japanese security and foreign strategy. Although Tokyo's aid programs in industrial and social spheres are welcomed by developing countries, Japan's pursuit towards the "normalization" of security and foreign policy is still viewed in some of recipient countries with caution. Although the scale of the Republic of Korea's ODA is smaller compared to Japan's and China's foreign aid programs, its implementation has been relatively successful due to interaction between government, businesses and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Whereas in the case of China, rigid control of public activities by the government still hinders comprehensive and multifaceted development of Beijing's assistance policies. Although the peculiarities of China's legislature and political system make its foreign aid policies and practices different from Japan's and Korea's ODA policies, there are a number of common features. These include attention to developing countries' priorities and peculiarities of their economic and political development, the acknowledgment of social responsibility of business, and the growing use of soft power tools. Given these circumstances, the collaboration on ODA projects is possible between China, Japan and the Republic of Korea. However, in some regions where the interests of these countries meet and contradict, for example, in Southeast Asia, there is a growing rivalry between Beijing, Tokyo and Seoul for presence and influence.
2016	Financial market integration, exchange rate policy, and the dynamics of business and employment in KoreaWe study the consequences of different degrees of international financial market integration and exchange rate policies in a calibrated, medium-scale model of the Korean economy. The model features endogenous producer entry into domestic and export markets and search-and-matching frictions in labor markets. This allows us to highlight the consequences of financial integration and the exchange rate regime for the dynamics of business creation and unemployment. We show that, under flexible exchange rates, access to international financial markets increases the volatility of both business creation and the number of exporting plants, but the effects on employment volatility are more modest. Pegging the exchange rate can have unfavorable consequences for the effects of terms of trade appreciation, but more financial integration is beneficial under a peg if the economy is subject to both productivity and terms of trade shocks. The combination of a floating exchange rate and internationally complete markets would be the best scenario for Korea among those we focus on.
2016	Trip making of older adults in Seoul: Differences in effects of personal and household characteristics by age group and trip purposeKorea is experiencing a rapid increase in the number and proportion of the older population aged 65 and older. This study investigated personal and household characteristics affecting trip making of older adults (65?years and older) using data from the 2010 Household Travel Survey in Seoul. It was tested if the effects of characteristics were the same for the 65+ and the under 65 groups, and if the effects for older adults were the same for the 65?74 and the 75+ groups. Trips were also classified into mandatory and discretionary trips and models estimated for the 65+ group for those two trip purposes. The investigation was done with a heteroskedastic ordered logit model to account for age differences in unobserved variance. The analysis showed that the effects of personal and household characteristics on trip making varied significantly between the under 65 and 65+ groups, and between those 65?74 and those 75+. This further confirms the risk of viewing all older adults as similar to each other or to younger individuals. The study found heteroskedasticity due to age for the youngest (under 41) and the oldest (75+) groups but not for those 41?64-years-old. Specific results showed that men 65 or older have a lower probability of making more trips than women, especially mandatory trips, suggesting transportation policy needs to consider the genders differently. Having a driver's license and an automobile was linked to more trips for those 65?74 and for mandatory trips but not for those 75+ and not for discretionary trips of those 65+. Higher income was linked to more trips for older adults, especially mandatory trips. The results show the development of transport policies needs to consider the variance among the aged, such as gender, income, driving licensure and automobile ownership.
2016	THE ROLE of FOREIGN DEBT and FINANCIAL FRICTIONS in A SMALL OPEN ECONOMY DSGE MODELWe examine the role of foreign debt and financial frictions in the Korean business cycle using a small open economy DSGE (dynamic stochastic general equilibrium) model where domestic banks borrow external funds, denominated in foreign currencies, for a risk premium and make loans to domestic producers. We find that the Korean economy is 'financially vulnerable', which means that the risk premium increases when the domestic currency depreciates. As a result, depreciation could cause recession, rather than expansion, when there exist substantial amount of foreign debt or financial frictions. A simulation shows that the Korean business cycle would suffer less volatility with a lower steady-state level of foreign debt or no financial frictions.
2016	Assessing the trade impacts of the ASEAN + 6 FTA for Lao PDRUsing an unbalanced panel dataset of bilateral exports from 1992 to 2009, we assess the potential trade impacts of the expansion of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to ASEAN + 3 and ASEAN + 6 on the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR). It is found that bilateral exports are positively related to overall bilateral country size and similarity in country size but inversely related to the factor endowment differences, transportation costs, and import tariffs. Simulation results show that the formation of preferential trade agreements (PTAs) between ASEAN and the Plus-6 economies (the People's Republic of China, Japan, and the Republic of Korea in East Asia; and the other three economies of Australia, India, and New Zealand) could increase bilateral trade between the Lao PDR and ASEAN + 6 by US$1 billion, and ASEAN + 3 by US$981 million. Nonetheless, the trade balance of the Lao PDR is likely to worsen in both the ASEAN + 3 and ASEAN + 6 PTAs because they stimulate more imports than exports.
2016	Mechanisms of the ‘Aid Curse’: Lessons from South Korea and PakistanRecently scholars have argued that, far from contributing to development, foreign aid hinders development. But in the 1960s the East Asian countries developed rapidly despite receiving large amounts of aid. To examine why aid seems to undermine development in some cases but not in others, we conduct a detailed comparison of the mechanisms of the ‘aid curse’ in South Korea and Pakistan. We show that South Korea saw astonishing levels of corruption, but this did not hinder its development; and Pakistan had a strong bureaucracy, which did not help it to grow. The key difference between the two countries was in the strength of their tax systems: foreign aid in the context of underdeveloped tax administration leads to increasing cycles of debt that undermine development. When foreign aid arrives in the context of commitment to strong taxation, a country can avoid the ‘aid curse.’
2016	A note on the effects of government spending on economic growth in KoreaThis study seeks to investigate how expansionary government spending shocks in Korea have influenced GDP growth since the 1980s through the lenses of time varying parameter structural vector autoregression (TVP-SVAR) approach. Our estimation results suggest that an increase in discretionary government spending has affected Korea’s economic growth in a favorable way while its stimulating effect has noticeably declined over the sample period. Furthermore, our cointegrating regression analysis suggests that government spending multiplier estimates in Korea have positive relationships with the public investment spending on infrastructure as well as the aggregate level of household debts, whereas modestly exhibiting inverse associations with trade openness and public debts.
2016	Korea’s transition experiments as a post catch-up projectSustainability has already become one of the most important items on innovation policy agendas in many countries. South Korea has attempted to emulate a global trend towards a sustainable socio-technical system but faces different challenges. These challenges must be resolved independently and not by adopting the policies and technologies of other nations. From the post catch-up perspective, this study reviews the ongoing experiments on a transition to a sustainable socio-technical system in Korean cities and villages and analyses the limitations of these experiments. The present study reviews the Low-Carbon Green Village Project and the Seoul City Hatbit (Solar) Power Plant Project launched, respectively, in 2008 and 2012. The two case studies share commonalities in that both attempt a transition into a new socio-technical system based on the shared recognition of the valuable ‘environment’ under the existing catch-up policy mode. These case studies are reviewed as examples of transition to a post catch-up paradigm. This transition is often characterised by sustainability, diversity, and a new development trajectory along with changes in environment and energy policy perspectives, which have been neglected.
2016	Post catch-up system transition failure: the case of ICT technology development in Korea‘Emerging economies’ like Korea in the 2000s face major challenges as they make a transition from (a) a phase of economic development characterised by ‘catching up’ with the global technological frontier, involving technological ‘imitation’, to (b) a phase of continuing development based on the development of new knowledge for globally leading (post catchup) product and process innovation. That transition is about accumulating new narrowly defined ‘technological’ components of innovation capability and changing the broad organisational and institutional context within which the technological (and economic) process of innovation takes place. During the catch-up phase of technological and economic development in successful emerging economies, that institutional dimension of the innovation system evolves particular characteristics that are well adapted to achieving effectiveness in the catch-up mode of innovation. This paper suggests that (1) these institutional characteristics may be less effective with respect to post catch-up innovation and (2) the institutional context adapted for catch-up innovation may not evolve adequately rapidly into the new forms required for effectiveness in post catch-up innovation. Consequently, these rigidities may become a source of lock-in?so contributing an institution-centred source of ‘failure in system transition’ in the innovation system.
2016	Korea's Economic Growth and Catch-up: Implications for ChinaThis study investigates the economic growth and catch-up of Korea over the past half century. Korea's growth experience confirms the prediction of a “conditional convergence” theory. Cross-country regression further suggests that Korea's strong catch-up to the USA is also attributable to its favorable growth factors such as strong investment, lower fertility, greater trade openness, and improvements in human resources and rule of law. However, as Korea catches up to the USA and its steady-state level in per worker output, it will be subject to a growth slowdown unless improvements are made in those growth factors. While manufacturing-oriented and export-oriented development has served Korea's success well, poor productivity performance in the services sector has hampered overall productivity growth. Korea's experience implies that China's potential growth rates are likely to slow in the coming decades due to the convergence effect and with the rebalancing toward a domestic consumption and services-based economy. China needs to upgrade its rule of law, reform state-owned enterprises and improve productivity, particularly in its services sector, to sustain strong growth.
2016	Persistence of informal social networks in East Asia: Evidence from South KoreaThis study investigates the nature and influence of informal social networks in South Korea (yongo) by analyzing trust levels and network cohesion. Predominantly based on studies on Chinese guanxi, it is widely believed that the further a nation develops stable formal institutions the more the influence of informal relations decreases. Given South Korea’s position as a strong economic powerhouse with established rule of law and democratic institutions, the influence of yongo should play an insignificant role today. We find significant evidence that network cohesion of yongo is still strong in South Korea, despite its economic rise. Contrary to expectation, we observe a higher-than-expected degree of general trust and a continuous commitment to yongo ties at the same time. These findings document recent changes in South Korea such as the beginning of its multicultural opening, whereas informal yongo ties, characterized by emotional interpersonal bonds, still remain pronounced. Foremost, we recommend current beliefs about the correlation of institutional development and decreasing informal transactions to be reconsidered. We propose further studies to better understand how informal social networks evolve over time.
2016	The virtues of variety in regional innovation systems and entrepreneurial ecosystemsToday, interesting and important interconnections have been made that promise great leaps forward for innovation systems and entrepreneurial ecosystems - especially operating at the regional or sub-national level of the space economy. Of course, there are politics in such relationships. Most notable are those that are critical of anything that "interferes" with market hegemony (neoliberal bias) which has weakened commitments such as those pioneered in South Korea in the early years of the twenty-first century, later to be followed by numerous Scandinavian policy experiments (Denmark, Norway and Sweden) as well as austerity policy to enlarge regional governance spaces, as in Germany and France (not to mention the dismantling in 2010 of Anglo-regional governance in the UK). Meanwhile, however, it can be seen that good progress in regional innovation policy and entrepreneurial accomplishment at regional level proceeds apace. This is known as the "co-operative bias" in contemporary political economy. Entrepreneurial ecosystems and regional innovation systems are excellent examples of "generative growth" mechanisms (floated in Cooke, P, Generative Growth, Knowledge Economies and Sustainable Development: implications for Regional Foresight Policy, 2002) as a counter to Romer-style individualistic endogenous growth theory. The paper explores the virtues of variety against those of linearity in innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystems in exemplary empirical instances.
2016	Role of R&amp;D in the productivity growth of Korean industries: Technology gap and business cycleThe gap between the productivity of the Korean economy and that of advanced economies has narrowed considerably in the manufacturing sector while remaining large in the service sector. Using a panel of Korean industries, this paper assesses the determinants of Korea's productivity growth. Our empirical analysis finds that (i) labor productivity has converged across industries, (ii) research and development  investment has played an important role in fostering productivity growth, and (iii) the productivity impact of R&D is stronger in more advanced industries (i.e., industries that are close to the technology frontier) and during economic downturns. The implication is that for more developed economies, such as Korea's, in which innovation plays a key role in productivity growth, R&D spending is best focused on more advanced industries and timed counter to the business cycle.
2016	Has the capital accumulation in the Asian miracle economies been fuelled by growth?The Asian growth miracle is often attributed to factor accumulation under the implicit assumption that savings, broadly defined, have been high and increasing due to exogenous forces. Using data for India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan over the period 1870?2011 this article examines the causal relationship between growth and saving. The response of growth to savings is first estimated using instruments to generate exogenous variation in savings rates. The residual variation in growth that is not driven by savings is then used as an instrument to estimate the effect of growth on savings. The estimates show that the spectacular saving rates in the Asian miracle economies have been fuelled by growth, and not the other way around.
2016	The Impact of Foreign Banks on Monetary Policy Transmission During the Global Financial Crisis of 2008?2009: Evidence from KoreaThis article examines the impact of foreign banks on the monetary policy transmission mechanism in the Korean economy during the period from 2000 to 2012, with a specific focus on the lending behavior of banks with different types of ownership. Using bank-level panel data of the banking system in Korea, we present consistent evidence on the buffering impact that the foreign banks, especially foreign bank branches including US bank branches, on the effectiveness of the monetary policy transmission mechanism in Korea from the bank-lending channel perspective during the global financial crisis of 2008?2009.
2016	Regional R&amp;D Efficiency in Korea from Static and Dynamic PerspectivesHan U., Asmild M. and Kunc M. Regional R&D efficiency in Korea from static and dynamic perspectives, Regional Studies. Research and development  efficiency has gained great attention in regional innovation research. This study examines the R&D efficiency patterns of 15 Korean regions for 2005?09. It employs data envelopment analysis to identify the regions' R&D performances relative to the best practices from the static perspective, and the Malmquist productivity index to evaluate their changes in performance within a given timeframe, providing a dynamic perspective. The results classify the Korean regions into deteriorating, lagging and improving groups, and indicate that most regions suffer from declining R&D productivity over time because of their inability to catch up with the best practices.
2016	The estimation of minimum efficient scale of the port industryTerminal scale has been the subject of discrete episodes of hotly contested policy debates. From the perspective of port authorities or governments, knowing the Minimum Efficient Scale (MES) is salient, because they sometimes determine the port development or expansion based on the port capacity or the existing size of the terminal. Notwithstanding the importance of knowing the exact MES, extant literature has not managed to estimate MES in the port industry. This study aims to estimate the MES in the port industry in South Korea in order to identify whether Container Terminal Operators (CTOs) are under economies of scale, constant economies of scale or diseconomies of scale; we explore a bottom point of the average cost curve in order to suggest an adequate scale for the port industry in Korea. The finding demonstrates that undercapacity may be a strong issue in Korean container ports. However, CTOs in Busan port are in an overcapacity area given the market demand of container throughput in 2013, which is approximately 25 times larger than the estimated MES; in fact, all CTOs in Busan port operate at more than 20% of MES. This study then can provide port policy makers with a helpful tool to derive ex-ante MES level at the terminal designing stage and to adjust ex-post port investment decisions at the additional port capacity designing stage, which may contribute to avoiding overcapacity.
2016	International Transmission Mechanisms and Contagion in Housing MarketsThis paper explores international transmission mechanism and its role in contagion effect in the housing markets across six major Asian cities. The analysis is based on the identification of house price diffusion effects through a global vector autoregressive (GVAR) model estimated using quarterly data for six major Asian cities (Hong Kong, Tokyo, Seoul, Singapore, Taipei and Bangkok) from 1991Q1 to 2011Q2. The empirical results indicate that the open economies heavily relying on international trade such as Singapore, Japan (Tokyo), Taiwan (Taipei) and Thailand (Bangkok) show positive correlations between the economy's openness and house prices, which is consistent with the Balassa?Samuelson hypothesis. Interestingly, some region-specific conditions also appear to play important roles as determinants of house price movements, which may be driven by restrictive housing policies and demand?supply imbalances such as Singapore and Bangkok. These results are reasonably robust across several model specifications. The findings bear significant implications for formulation of investment strategy and public policies.
2016	An investigation of the effects of exchange rate volatility on exports in East AsiaThis study investigates the effects of the exchange rate volatility on the export flows of Indonesia, Malaysia, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Thailand, and the Philippines during 1974?2011. Towards this goal a trade weighted real effective (rather than the bilateral) exchange rate and three different measures of volatility, i.e. obtained from an ARCH model, a GARCH model and a moving-average standard deviation measure are used in this study. Specifically, the export flows between six Asian countries and the rest of the world are investigated rather than focusing on trade with only one country. Our findings reveal that the exchange rate volatility has a significant impact on export flows in the short run as well as in the long run for all the countries in the sample. The impact in the long run is predominantly negative with the exception of Singapore, but in the short run the impact varies across countries. Moreover, our results are robust to the alternative measures of volatility used and most of the findings in the long run and short run are also robust to the crisis period.
2016	Macroeconomic shocks and dynamics of labor markets in KoreaA New Keynesian model with labor friction, in which involuntary unemployment can be endogenized, is estimated with the Korean macroeconomic data using a Bayesian estimation approach. The model is extended by specifying a small open economy with tradable and nontradable goods sectors to characterize the Korean labor market empirically. Results of empirical analyses based on the estimated model can be summarized as follows. First, the sectoral reallocation of labor plays an important role in the adjustment of the Korean labor market, which responds to macroeconomic shocks, particularly foreign shocks. Second, the historical decomposition analysis demonstrates that the cyclical fluctuations of unemployment in Korea are explained by key domestic shocks, such as domestic productivity shocks and preference shocks. A relatively small contribution of foreign shocks to aggregate labor market variables is partly caused by the sectoral shift of employment rather than extensive changes in aggregate employment and labor force.
2016	Regional Characteristics, Industry Agglomeration and Location Choice: Evidence from Japanese Manufacturing Investments in Korea*Using extensive firm-level data for the years 1998?2006, we analyze the regional location decision of Japanese manufacturing foreign direct investors in Korea by focusing on the role of agglomeration economies. Our logit estimates indicate that horizontal agglomeration matters in the location decision, but vertical agglomeration does not. Strong evidence of country-of-origin effects is found. Japanese foreign direct investments in high-technology industries show a typical ‘follow-the-leader’ pattern, while those in the in low-technology industries are influenced by regional endowments. In addition, Japan's high-technology firms are likely to prefer urban locations so that they can enjoy the externalities of business services.
2016	The technical progress and resilience in productivity growth of Korea's growth-leading industriesThis study investigates the total factor productivity  growth of targeted industries, and seeks to verifiy upgrading in Korea's industrial structure by examining changes in its growth-leading industries from 1995 to 2012. In addition, it also examines the main source behind the resilience in the TFP growth of 37 key manufacturing industries after two global financial crises. The stochastic frontier production model is applied using a micro-level panel data set of the establishments for the 37 key manufacturing industries for the estimations. Empirical results show that a steadily high rate of technical progress was the driving force behind the resilience in the TFP growth of the 21 growthleading industries after two global financial crises. The 21 growth-leading industries achieved nearly five times the TFP growth and four times the technological progress of the other 16 key industries. A change in the growth-leading industries in 2012 shows an upgrade in the industrial structure with more knowledge-based and high-technology-based industries than in 2000 and 2005. The study suggests further research on the role of institutions and industrial policies for industrial upgrading based on the findings of this study in order for Korea to enhance its industrial development for a more sustainable long-run economic growth.
2016	Modeling an Innovation Intermediary System Within a HelixThe German Mittelstand model of the triple helix has been important for facilitating the innovation of small medium enterprises (SMEs) in Germany. Fraunhofer Institutes have provided an innovation intermediary between university research and SME technology. We address the issue of adapting a Mittelstand triple helix from the German national culture into other cultures, particularly to South Korea. For this, we develop a general model of a Mittelstand triple helix.
2016	Heterogeneous lending behaviors and gross loan flows in developing economiesThis paper explores gross loan flows in the Bangladesh commercial banking sector between 2001 and 2014. I find evidence that relatively substantial loan reallocation exists in the Bangladesh loan market, while the loan market grows quickly during the study period. Loan flows different in bank ownership show heterogeneous patterns. Furthermore, loan flows exhibit cyclical patterns over the business cycle, which is consistent with prior work in the U.S. and South Korea. We also uncover evidence that aggregate shocks are the main driver for net loan growth, while allocative shocks play an important role in driving loan reallocation.
2016	The Recent Convergence of Financial Development in AsiaWe construct an index of financial development for twenty-three Asian economies based on sub-indices of access, depth, and efficiency of financial institutions and markets and find evidence that economies with weaker financial systems are catching up to the Asian benchmark economies, namely Hong Kong, China; Japan; the Republic of Korea; and Singapore. Gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, aggregate GDP, and mobile subscriptions all increase the growth rate of financial development in Asian economies while institutional factors have insignificant or ambiguous effects. We also evaluate the relative importance of the sub-indices in delivering high economic growth, low volatility, and greater financial access.
2016	Why Untie Aid? An Empirical Analysis of the Determinants of South Korea's Untied Aid from 2010 to 2013As untying aid was widely considered key to enhancing aid effectiveness, the South Korean government decided to increase the share of untied aid. While the share increased substantially in recent years, considerable variation exists in the proportion of untied aid provided to different recipient countries. This article explores the reasons why. We identify three key variables: international factors, economic interests and recipient country governance. By analysing South Korea's aid data for the period 2010-2013, we find that Korea's aid-untying practice is affected by international norms and the recipient country's governance, but not by peer pressure and economic interests.
2016	Spreading crisis: Evidence of financial stress spillovers in the Asian financial marketsEmploying a generalized vector autoregression (VAR) framework, this paper examines financial stress spillovers in five Asian countries, namely, China, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines, during turmoil periods. Our data span the period from the end of 1997 to early 2009, encompassing the impact of the 2007-2009 global financial crisis on several Asian economies. We use a financial stress index specifically designed for emerging economies as a proxy for financial stress, and our findings reveal significant cross-country stress spillover effects, where China is the dominant stress transmitter among the five countries during stressful periods. Further, the generalized impulse responses (GIRs) on stress innovations show a positive short-run effect up to one standard deviation before it fades away. Overall, our findings shed light on the dynamics of financial stress spillovers in the Asian financial markets.
2016	Heterogeneous Patterns of Financial Development: Implications for Asian Financial IntegrationThis paper analyzes detailed differences in patterns of financial development across the major Asian economies, including three of the region’s largest economies (China, Japan and South Korea), to understand how these differences might affect possibilities for greater regional financial integration. In particular, the paper argues that heterogeneous patterns of financial development, and not just differences in levels of financial development, may present an economic challenge to regional financial integration efforts, aside from possible political challenges. The paper provides background on the case for financial openness, Asian experiences with financial integration, and regional economic responses to external shocks. It also discusses policy options, including regulatory reform and coordination, and possible risk management policies and institutions, in the context of heterogeneous patterns of financial development.
2016	Overseas development aid as spatial fix? Examining South Korea’s Africa policyThis paper examines the extent to which South Korea’s developmental aid programme to Africa can be understood as a form of ‘ aid as imperialism’. We argue against the depiction of a crude determinism between the ‘interests of capital’ and the international activism of the South Korean state through aid provision. Drawing on Harvey’s theory of the new imperialism, we argue that, while the structural transformations in the South Korean political economy explain Seoul’s ODA programme at a general level, it is strongly influenced by geopolitical objectives which often undermine South Korea’s ability to pursue distinctly mercantile aims.
2016	The effect of North Korean threats on financial markets in South Korea and JapanThis paper examines the effects of North Korean threats, as measured by the proprietary North Korean Threat Index (NKTI), on financial markets in South Korea and Japan. We examine the effects of the threats on stock markets, foreign exchange markets, and overnight interest rates. We consider causality in mean and variance tests to determine any link between the NKTI and financial variables. The causality-in-mean test results indicate the presence of a causal link running from North Korean threats to stock returns and exchange rate returns in both countries, but no significant link to the overnight interest rate in either country. The causality-in-variance test results indicate no significant impact emanating from North Korean threats. Integrating the North Korean economy into the global economy stands to eliminate these threats and thus to contribute to regional financial stability.
2016	Impact of educational investments on economic losses from population ageing using an interregional CGE-population modelThis paper uses an interregional CGE-Population model of Korea to estimate the regional effects of population ageing on the economic losses from 2015 to 2060. The model accounts for the economic behavior of producers and consumers on the real side economies of two regions: the Seoul Metropolitan Area and the rest of Korea. Population demographics are disaggregated into eight age cohorts, and each age group has different parameters and values for labor productivity and participation rates in the labor market on the supply side and saving rates and consumption behaviors on the demand side. The ageing trend could cause a reduction in the GDP by 0.92% on average, but the damage could be compensated for through an additional increase in educational investments in the 20-29 age cohort by 4% for at least 10 consecutive years. However, the investment policy has a negative impact on the regional income distribution due to different elasticity values of education by age cohort with respect to human capital productivity.
2016	Economic evaluation of healthcare technology improving the quality of social life: the case of assistive technology for the disabled and elderlyPublic investments in healthcare technology for the disabled and elderly to improve the quality of social life have been vigorous, but the economic evaluation of the assistive technology is still lacking. Under this circumstance, the purpose of this study is to analyse the socio-economic value of developing assistive technologies with the potential to improve the quality of social life, especially for disabled and elderly individuals. Based on a survey of 400 respondents, the spike model, a special form of the contingent valuation method (CVM) is applied to assess the value of assistive technologies. In Korea, a household’s willingness-to-pay (WTP) for the development of assistive technologies is US$4.26 per year, on average, in the form of a government-levied tax; although many people express zero WTP for the development of these technologies, people with higher household savings, higher levels of education and higher levels of charity donations have a higher WTP for the development of assistive technology. We conclude that although assistive technologies have considerable economic value many people express zero WTP for the development of these technologies. Therefore, political and social educational efforts are necessary to reach social consensus on the government investment in such technologies.
2016	A study of the economic impacts of the TPP on Korea: Armington and Melitz modelPurpose ? The purpose of this paper is to measure the effects of TPP on Korean economy focussing on the changes in the number of firms and productivity. Design/methodology/approach ? Following Melitz (2003) and Balistreri et al. (2011), the authors apply CGE simulation to five groups of 140 countries. Findings ? The authors find that welfare increases in Korea to join the TPP regardless the size of the TPP through productivity improvement of participating firms and increases in the number of exporting firms, factor prices and outputs. Practical implications ? This study helps tentative member countries of TPP decide to join. Originality/value ? The effects of TPP to Korean economy is measured with Melitz model, which has not yet attempted before.
2016	Neo-Colonialism in South-South Relations? The Case of China and North KoreaThe past decade has seen the rapid expansion of economic ties between China and North Korea, leading to questions of whether this emerging relationship resembles neo-colonialism or a more positive form of South-South cooperation. This article argues that China's engagement is driven in the first instance by strategic considerations, namely the maintenance of the geopolitical status quo on the Korean peninsula. However, North Korea has also become increasingly important in terms of Beijing's aims of revitalizing its north-eastern region, and as such, economic relations are becoming increasingly market-led. Although this mode of engagement bears similarities with China's engagement elsewhere in the developing world, North Korea's catastrophic economic decline in the 1990s largely preceded the more recent revival of relations with China. We argue therefore that bilateral relations between the two countries cannot usefully be regarded as 'neo-colonial' since North Korea is receiving much needed trade and investment from China within the context of broader international isolation. As such, we suggest that more attention needs to be paid to how geopolitical specificities influence the manner in which South-South cooperation shapes the possibilities of development, and that the dichotomous terrain of the existing debate between optimistic and pessimistic viewpoints is unhelpful.
2016	Directional analysis of consumers’ forecasts of inflation in a small open economy: evidence from South KoreaWe evaluate the directional accuracy of consumers’ forecasts of inflation in predicting the movement of the actual CPI in a small open economy. In order to do so, we use a method developed by Pesaran and Timmermann (2009), based on South Korean data. By illustrating an application of the new market-timing test, we show that consumers’ expectations of inflation are not a useful predictor of the CPI in South Korea. Our findings suggest that the directional accuracy of consumers’ 1-year-ahead forecasts of inflation is not affected by the inflation targeting of the Bank of Korea. Our findings also suggest that consumers’ 1-year-ahead forecasts of inflation are scattered away from the Bank of Korea’s inflation target.
2016	Understanding the Economics?Politics Nexus in South Korea?China RelationsA very interesting observation in recent South Korea?China relations is the sharp contrast between their “hot” economic and “cold” political ties. This article proposes to understand the “trade?conflict” relations from the perspective of the two states’ grand strategy of foreign policy. At the bilateral level, Vector Autoregression models are employed to test the Granger causality between Sino-South Korean bilateral trade and political relations. At the regional level, the two states’ economic and political ties with other regional powers in Northeast Asia are examined. The findings reveal different patterns in South Korea and China’s grand strategies to balance their economic and political goals.
2016	Impacts of Emerging Asia on African and Latin American Trade: Projections to 2030Rapid growth in Asia's emerging economies has boosted export earnings of resource-rich economies over the past decade. Whether or not those high growth rates continue, how will structural changes in Asia alter the relative importance of their imports of primary products? This paper projects production and trade patterns of Africa and Latin America to 2030 under various growth and policy scenarios in Asia, using the GTAP model of the global economy. We compare a projection assuming relatively conservative economic growth in China and India with a projection in which those economies continue to grow rapidly (albeit slower than in the previous decade). We then compare our conservative growth baseline with two alternative scenarios: one assuming Africa and Latin America choose to invest more in public agricultural R&D to take advantage of Asian import growth; the other assuming China and India dampen that import growth by restricting their imports of key food grains (following the historical pattern of economies such as Japan and Korea). The final section summarises the results and draws out policy implications for Latin America and Africa.
2016	Research ethics education in Korea for overcoming culture and value system differencesAlthough ethical standards and procedures for research in Korea have developed closer to global standards, applying those standards and procedures have led significant conflicts widely due to the cultural differences. In Korea where relationship-centered East Asian values are crucial, it is difficult for 'internal whistleblowing' and 'conflicts of interest management' to function properly. At universities, it is difficult to form an equal relationship to have a free discussion between professors and students. Also, the research community has been influenced by side effects such as 'respect for quantity and speed', 'excessive competition', and 'mammonism' that have permeated Korean society during its modernization process. Students have taken such values for granted, too. These circumstances disable research ethics system to function properly and have negative influence on organization development by discouraging open innovation. In this context, how can we educate students to follow the global standards as well as dealing with conflicts derived from cultural differences wisely? I propose that the overarching principle of research ethics education should not be a 'delivery of knowledge' but be a 'change in the way of thinking'. In this paper, five-stage education is proposed. As education methods, discussing of dilemma cases, avoiding remote online education and leading the whole team teaching classes by one head lecturer are recommended. In addition, classroom education should be provided together with social education to change the students' ways of thinking. As for social education, self-effort of universities and operational behaviour of research laboratories are two most important aspects. The government should establish legislation and expand financial support to facilitate these changes. It is very important that the universities should become key drivers that purify their member societies so that the nation may prosper.
2016	Knowledge workers’ ambidexterity: conceptual separation of competencies and behavioural dispositionsWhile previous literature on organisational ambidexterity research has largely focused on the organisational or top management level, research on individual ambidexterity is in the early stage. The present study expands research in this area by proposing conceptual separation of core competencies for individuals’ ambidexterity and their relations to behavioural ambidexterity. Drawing from the literature on organisational ambidexterity and knowledge management, the authors coined the term knowledge workers’ integrated ambidexterity competency, a multidimensional construct that consists of cognitive, information, and social skills. Hypotheses are developed to test the multidimensionality and causal relationships among constructs. Empirical analysis with survey data from 293 knowledge workers in South Korea supports the validity of the multidimensional construct and indicates that integrated ambidexterity competency, involving an interaction of cognitive, information, and social skills, drives behavioural ambidexterity. The contribution of the study lies in advancing the theory of organisational ambidexterity by conceptual separation of competencies from behaviour as well as the development of the multifaceted perspectives of the competencies, and the development of measurement items.
2016	Division of labour in championing activities for technological innovations in Korea: patterns and performance consequencesThis study empirically examined the patterns of division of labour in championing activities for technological innovations in Korea, and their relationships with project and organisational complexity and the consequences of performance. Based on data from 88 new product development (NPD) projects in Korea, this study found that there were six different types of champion role structures: two solo champion structures, three dual champion structures, and one triple champion structure. This study examined the characteristics of key people who played three different champion roles in terms of education level, functional area, and hierarchical position in the organisation. It also revealed that organisational complexity led to specialisation of the champion role structure. Role specialisation in championing activities in general and the existence of an executive champion in particular had a significant impact on uncertainty reduction in terms of technology, market, resource acquisition, and organisation support, which in turn led to higher performances in the innovation project.
2016	Global Outsourcing and Wage Inequality in Middle-Income Countries: Evidence from South KoreaA substantial number of studies have suggested that global outsourcing can induce wage inequality. As Feenstra and Hanson [(1996a) Foreign investment, outsourcing, and relative wage, in: R. C. Feestra, G. M. Hanson, and D. A. Irwin (Eds.) Political Economy of Trade Policy: Essays in Honor of Jagdish Bhagwati (Cambridge: The MIT Press), pp. 89?127] argued, global outsourcing is comparable to skill-biased technological change in that global outsourcing is more likely to increase the wage of skilled workers rather than their unskilled counterparts. We examine the effects of outsourcing on wage of skilled and unskilled workers in Korea's manufacturing sector with a focus on the dissimilar effects of outsourcing to developed countries (DCs) and less developed countries (LDCs) on relative wage. The results of system and difference GMM estimation based on manufacturing data from 1992 to 2006 indicate that outsourcing to DCs and LDCs have opposite (and significant) effects on relative wage, that is, outsourcing to DCs (LDCs) decreases the wage of skilled (unskilled) workers.
2016	From the financial crisis to the next eleven: limits and contradictions in the Korean process of capital accumulationThis paper examines the South Korean economic crisis of 1997?1998 and the subsequent recovery. For this, it first analyses the specific characteristics and long-term development of the process capital accumulation there. The paper claims that, as in the rest of East Asia, capital accumulation in Korea has, since the mid-1960s, revolved around the production of specific industrial goods for world markets using the relatively cheap and disciplined local workforce for simplified labour-processes as appendage of the machine or in manual assembly operations. This modality of accumulation resulted from changes in the forms of production of relative surplus-value on a global scale through the development of computerisation and robotisation, and the concomitant transformation in the productive attributes of the collective worker of large-scale industry. The 1997?1998 financial-cum-economic crisis, as well as the foundations and characteristics of the subsequent recovery, are understood as manifestations of the contradictory dynamics of this specific form of capitalist development.
2016	A way to increase K-SURE’s export insurance recoveries through arbitration by subrogationPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to utilize the concept of arbitration by subrogation as a means to increase recoveries of indemnities paid out to exporters or any financial institutions by K-SURE, an export credit agency of Korea, against possible non-payment or breach of obligations from the buyer or the buyer’s country. It looks into the possibility of K-SURE and KCAB reactivating its 2004 MOU to give more jurisdictional protection to K-SURE’s indemnities recovery transactions. Design/methodology/approach: This paper first introduces a brief elucidation about export insurance provided by K-SURE and the necessity of arbitration in the export insurance, and a summary of a subrogation arbitration case referred to the KCAB by K-SURE in 2005. Cognizant of the 2004 MOU between K-SURE and KCAB, as well as the foreign and domestic developments in arbitration, the paper then analyzes legal principles of subrogation by insurer, as well as domestic and overseas precedents on the matters of assignment of claim and arbitration by subrogation. Findings: While it appears that there is still no universally recognized authority nor established court precedents applying arbitration by subrogation, the authors discovered that similar to Korea, most of leading courts in the world have consistently held that the assignee can request and be requested for arbitration pursuant to the arbitration agreement contained in the assigned contract. The paper concludes that the K-SURE now can be admitted as a party having proper standing in the arbitration proceedings so long as the specific claim right under the contract which includes the arbitration agreement is assigned to the K-SURE. Originality/value: This paper suggests a possible plan to increase recoveries in export insurance. The outcome of the research is expected to enhance the arbitration system on the back of increasing numbers of arbitration related to export insurance, to improve the balance sheet of K-SURE and ultimately, to help the Korean economy by collecting export insurance recoveries which will lead to saving Korean people’s tax.
2016	Socio-ecological resilience of Oil spill: Focusing on the hebei spirit oil spill on the west coast of KoreaPurpose of this paper: The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between the socio-ecological impacts and resilience of the Hebei Spirit Oil Spill (HSOS). This study analyzes the ecological and social impacts and social and ecological resilience of HSOS from the perspective of the Ecological Impacts (oil spill itself, physical environment of the marine, and marine biology), Social Impacts (disaster management, economy, compensation), and Social and Ecological Resilience (human health and community resilience, policy and decision). Design/methodology/approach: In order to examine the socio-ecological impacts, this study conducts a comprehensive literature review, which includes government and industry papers and reports related to oil spills and their environmental and societal consequences. The literature consists largely of case studies, the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs' Hebei Spirit oil spill white papers, reports on inspection ruling from Seosan local court concerning HSOS compensation by area and type of business, and secondary statistics from published academic journals. In addition, we also conducted an interview in 2008 near the damaged area regarding conflicts between resident groups and communities. Findings: This study presents several suggestions on methods to restore damage caused by an oil spill. First, it is necessary to establish long- and mid-term strategies to restore the ecosystem. Second, not only do governments and local societies need to put effort into revitalizing the affected local economy but also focus more on social and ecological resilience. Third, since Taean is at a risk of experiencing another oil spill at any time, it is necessary to establish a strict compensation system of the IOPC, laws and systems relating to compensations for damage and loss, and a system that will resolve local conflicts in the case of a disaster. What is original/value of paper: From the perspective of the socio-ecological system (SES), the ecological system and social system are closely linked with one another. Accordingly, looking into both the social and ecological aspects of the HSOS as a whole would be more meaningful than examining ecological and social influences separately. This study supplements the limitations of previous literature by focusing on the relationship between social and ecological impacts and resilience of the HSOS from a socio-ecological standpoint.
2016	From a disaster to a miracle: Suggestions for North KoreaUtilizing a model of income and population growth specialized to a dual-class (master-slave) economy, we show that the lack of ownership for the majority of people may have been the main culprit why North Korea has remained stagnant in the past. The slave-workers, for whom ownership (and freedom) is denied, end up with a subsistent level of income. However, the masters, who own not only property but also slaves, end up with a big income. When the slave-workers are liberated to become property owning free people, their income will increase far above the subsistent level. However, the former master-owners' income will shrink sharply. Knowing this fact, masters have strong incentives to maintain the slavery and slaves have equally strong incentives to overturn it. If a binding commitment can be made, under which the masters free the slaves and the freed slaves give back portions of their increased income to their former masters, a smooth transition to a free economy can be engineered.
2016	The evolution of the informal economy in North KoreaThis paper uses a survey of North Korean refugees to investigate the evolution of informal economic activities of North Korean households. We find little evidence of increases in informal economic activities in terms of the aggregate participation rate in the informal economy from 1996 to 2009. However, service and manufacturing activities in the informal economy increased during 2005-2009 at the sacrifice of informal agricultural activities. Evidence shows that labor productivity has improved in the informal service sector, whereas the informal manufacturing sector has not experienced increases in productivity. These results imply that expansion of the informal service sector contributes to North Korea's economic growth, but the lack of private property rights constrains the development of manufacturing.
2016	Transfer of innovation technologies as a factor of the world nuclear power industry developmentThis article is devoted to studying the experience of the technological transfer in the nuclear power industry through the example of three countries: France, China and South Korea. The main goal of this article is to find the key regularities that provided these countries with the technological breakthrough in the area of reclaiming the potential of the "peaceful atom." The following basic conclusions have been made within researching the theme of the article: ? The nuclear power industry can be considered as an objective alternative of the traditional (hydrocarbon) power industry if technologies of exploiting nuclear power stations constantly develop and can be characterized by safety and stability of exploitation, ? Technological transfer is a key factor of the nuclear power industry development. The use of the technological transfer allows the recipient countries to quickly develop the infrastructure of the nuclear power industry and form their own scientific engineering potential, and the delivering countries get direct economic advantages, ? The experience of South Korea, China and France showed that the most optimal approach to the nuclear power industry development on the basis of technological transfer is based on subsequent use of two strategies. Initially the transfer strategy is used. Within it the recipient country uses foreign scientific engineering and technological achievements, and along with it creates its own production and scientific engineering infrastructure, and ? The accumulation strategy allows the countries that used to be recipients to develop their own nuclear technologies on the basis of the accumulated experience and to clone them abroad (in those countries that have not created their own nuclear power industry by now).
2016	Effects of technology innovation activity investments for small and medium manufacturing enterprises to business performance: Focusing on the southeast area in South KoreaFor continuous growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), their technology innovation activities are identified as the main variable. In this sense, the interaction among the principals of innovation activities within the company and the investments made in innovation activities is important in company's performance, but the importance of R&D is not equally high in all companies and all innovation activities don't lead to innovative performance. The domain of this study is small and medium manufacturing enterprises in the southeast area. In this study, the cost of technological innovation activity consists of 4 categories, including internal R&D, external R&D, introduction of capital goods such as machinery/equipment and software, and introduction of outside knowledge/technology. Achievements of company were classified as successful elements of technological competitiveness and those of manufacture improvement. As a result, the study revealed that cost of all technological innovative activity had nothing to do with the successful elements of manufacture improvement. When it comes to successful elements of technological competitiveness, cost of capital goods such as machines/equipment or software and that of external R&D activity had an effect in order. Base on the results of the study, the government should take action to improve technological competitiveness improvement of small and medium sized-manufacture enterprises, and manufacture improvement. It will promote a company's investment on technological innovative activity and enhance a company by preparing a system for commercialization, and further national development.
2016	The effects of U-city security service on crime ratesThe national economy of South Korea has grown exponentially after 1960s, resulting in the urbanization rate to soar 39.1% in 1960 to 91.5% in 2013. However, unlike the rapid quantitative growth, a slow trend in qualitative growth of cities has resulted in a number of urban problems, especially in crime. A number of recent studies have focused on the factors influencing crime rates, the spatial effects of crime, as well as cities operating Ubiquitous Security service for the purpose of crime prevention. This study aims to address the effects of Ubiquitous city (U-city) on crime rates within the metropolitan area of Seoul. The study first analyzes the geographical distribution of crime rates and then identifies the existence of spatial autocorrelation of crime rates within Seoul. Finally, the study determines whether the execution of U-Security service affects crime rates and other urban characteristics that influence crime rates. These effects are determined by applying spatial regression models, which can control the spatial effects and other effects of other urban characteristics on crime rates. The results of this analysis show that U-City security service does not have a statistically significant effect on crime rates. The study can be used to support the application of U-City security service to regions with high crime rates, and to address the needs of future studies that aim to compare crime rates before and after the application of U-City security service.
2016	Does higher level of tourism activities lead to higher level of economic development? evidence from asian countriesThis paper estimates the tourism sector's contribution to economic development measured by total GDP in the Asian counties for the period of 1988-2015. For the analysis, total eleven Asian countries, i.e. China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Macau, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and India are considered. By using data from World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) and employing panel data model (Fixed effect model), the study has found that tourism sectors play an important role in increasing GDP of the Asian countries. The estimated regression results show that total value of government individual expenditures, leisure tourism spending, business tourism spending, visitor exports, domestic tourism spending, capital investment and total contribution to employment in tourism sectors have a positive and significant effect on total GDP. On the other hand, total value of outbound travel & tourism expenditure has a negative and significant effect on total GDP contributed by tourism sectors solely. Finally, after reviewing the current Indian tourism policies, the paper suggests that promotion of tourism sector is essential not only for achieving higher level of economic development but also to increase employment level in Asian countries, especially, in India.
2016	Tracing Thailand's linkages to global supply chain: Applications of world input-output database (WIOD) and structural path analysisTrade openness has continuously gained its significance on the structure of Thai economy. The empirical evidence shows that the increasing inflows of intermediate, machinery and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) have simultaneouslycorrelated with the exports of manufacturing products. This evolution indicates the deeper connection of Thai economy to the global supply chain. Based on this fact, this study introduces the new approach of quantifying and tracing the network of impact transmission between the international supply chain and Thai economy. To construct the global input-output table exhibiting Thailand's international trade linkages, the World Input-Output Database (WIOD) is extended to include Thailand's domestic and international trade statistics. In order toextract the main structure of international production network, the computationa l techniques of Leontief backward and forward multipliers and the Structural Path Analysis (SPA) are applied to the newly constructed WIOD table. The computational outcome indicatesthat among Thailand's production activities, the electronics manufacturing sector has the highest value of both international backward and forward multipliers. The result obtained from SPA also reveals the international production network of e lectronics industry linking manufacturing processes across Thailand, Japan, China, Korea, US, EU, Taiwan and rest of the world. The SPA result identifies thesimilar pattern of linkages to the international supply chain of Thailand's manufacturing sector. These findings signify thelinkages between Thai economy and the international production network, and the importance of the transmission mechanism of impactspropagating through connected supply chains.
2016	Emergence of innovative manufacturing firms across asian countriesThe recent phase of globalization has witnessed increasing influence of Asian countries in the global economy. This is supported by the rise of Asian firms and their increasing presence in economic activities across the globe through innovations in manufacturing. This paper attempts to trace the rise of Asian firms and their innovation capabilities while examining the theory of the growth of the firm and empirical literature. The comparative analysis of innovations across innovative manufacturing firms of seven Asian countries-Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, China and India is based on data collected through Oslo manual approach survey conducted and compiled by UNESCO in 2013. This unique data set covers technological and social innovations which is more comprehensive and expands the scope of the concept of innovations. Important empirical evidence that has emerged from the analysis is that Asian manufacturing firms are having higher level of social innovations than technological innovations. Level of economic development is positively correlated to transition from process to product innovations across firms of both developed and developing countries. The low variations across active innovative firms in product and process innovations imply that technological innovations are stable and risingin Asia. This is supported by high degree of intensity of in-house R&D expenditure. The most important barrier to innovative and non innovative manufacturing firms is the deficiency of internal and external finances except firms of Japan and South Korea. The innovation environmental constraints are more visible across Asian firms where the national innovation system is at nascent phase. The finding based public policy suggestion is that the public policy should accord high priority in investing higher proportion of resources in innovations to relieve the firms from such constraints.
2016	International competitiveness: A comparison of the manufacturing sectors in Korea and JapanUsing firm-level data covering most firms in the manufacturing sectors of Korea and Japan, we compiled a new dataset of TFP and factor costs by firm size and industry. Employing this dataset, we quantitatively examine changes in the two countries' relative competitiveness. Following Dekle, and Fukao's (2011) approach based on production cost functions, we decompose intertemporal changes in the relative competitiveness of Korean firms vis-a-vis Japanese firms into four factors: (1) differences in TFP growth (catching up of Korean firms); (2) changes in relative factor prices; (3) changes in relative intermediate input prices; and (4) changes in real exchange rates. Using our new dataset, we also compare changes in the two countries' competitiveness by different firm-size groups. We find that during the period of 1994-2010, the real wage rate of Korean workers doubled in most industries. Nevertheless, the competitiveness of Korean firms relative to their Japanese counterparts did not deteriorate. The main factors canceling out the impact of real wage increases were Korea's higher TFP growth in many industries such as motor vehicles and the sharp decline in Korean intermediate input prices in some industries such as electrical and electronic machinery. We also find that in many industries the competitiveness of Korean small and medium-sized firms vis-a-vis their Japanese counterparts increased by more than that of large firms. Two important developments can be observed which likely contributed to the improved competitiveness of small and medium-sized firms in Korea vis-a-vis their rivals in Japan. First, in Korea, small and medium-sized firms registered higher TFP growth rates than large firms during 1994- 2010. And second, wage gaps across firm-size groups narrowed in Japan, while they widened in Korea.
2016	Is corruption bad for economic growth? Evidence from Asia-Pacific countriesThis study utilizes the bootstrap panel Granger causality approach, which incorporates both cross-sectional dependence and heterogeneity across countries, to investigate whether corruption negatively impacts economic growth in thirteen Asia-Pacific countries over the 1997-2013 period. The empirical results show that there is a significantly positive causality running from corruption to economic growth in South Korea, a significantly positive causality running from economic growth to corruption in China and no significant causality between corruption and economic growth for the remaining countries. According to the empirical results, we do not support the common perception that corruption is bad for economic growth for all thirteen Asia-Pacific. On the contrary, results of this study suggest that the "grease the wheels" hypothesis is supported for South Korea. Additionally, results of this study indicate that for most Asia-Pacific countries, policy makers' use of anti-corruption policies to promote a country's economic development may not be effective. Finally, results of this study also suggest that for China, increase in economic growth leads to an increase in corruption.
2016	Determinants of global logistics hub ports: Comparison of the port development policies of Taiwan, Korea, and JapanThis paper explores global logistics hub port assessment criteria, and compares the competitiveness of three major international hub ports in Northeast Asia, namely the ports of Busan, Tokyo, and Kaohsiung, from a logistics perspective employing a hybrid multi-criteria decision-making approach incorporating the analytical hierarchy process (AHP) and gray relational analysis (GRA). A total of 20 assessment criteria are obtained under the five dimensions of political-economic environment, operating environment, cost environment, infrastructure facilities environment, and preferential incentive environment. The AHP results show that, from the perspective of all respondents, the top five assessment criteria are transport and distribution costs, convenience of customs clearance procedures, harbor and stevedoring costs, cost of land, and soundness of investment system and incentive measures. Based on GRA outcomes, Busan has the highest level of satisfaction as a global logistics hub port, followed by Tokyo and Kaohsiung.
2015	Complex adaptive systems approach to sewol ferry disaster in KoreaThis paper aims to introduce the concept and characteristics of natech disaster (natural hazards triggered technological disaster) and to explore the policy issues in complex disaster management in Korea. This research examines the issues of natech complex disaster through analysis of Sewol ferry disaster. Various variables of developing the risk communication are derived using bow-tie model, and the detailed causes are derived using ABM (Agent -based model). Therefore, this study is to apply the catastrophe based approach for improving effective holistic approaches to disaster and to investigate the changing factor analysis of the risk communication with dynamic characteristics using the model of complex adaptive systems. Based on the results of analyzes, this research concludes with a few policy suggestions. First, the natech complex disaster management needs to be approached in complex adaptive perspective. Second, by psychological, social network analysis, and linking reaction after the disaster, we could cope with the physical disaster similar in the future. Thus, the concepts of hazard and vulnerability cannot be defined independently of one another. Third, the perception of vulnerability as a "psychological event" implies that disaster has a point of beginning and an end. Therefore, determines vulnerability management actions as prevention or mitigation (before), emergency response (during) and long-term rehabilitation and development (after), which together form part of the vulnerability management cycle. In conclusion, complex adaptive systems approach to the vulnerability could cause us to change our focus on preparing for the impact of events, and perhaps it should induce us to widen our horizon concerning the dynamics and implications of the natech disaster.
2015	Collaborative networks among local governments in the Seoul Metropolitan Area in South KoreaObjective: This study aims to examine collaborative relationships among local governments in the Seoul metropolitan area in South Korea by applying social network analysis. Background: The capital metropolitan area consists of three upper-level local governments: Seoul, Incheon, and Kyounggi, which consists of 25, 10, and 31 lower-level local governments, respectively. Individual local governments in this competitive environment have sometimes tried to collaborate with each other for regional economic development and growth. This study investigated how they have collaborated with each other, and identified who played key roles in regional networks. Methods: The study applied social network theories and used the UCINET 6 software for an analysis of the network data collected, and the collaborative network among local governments was visualized using NetDraw. Results: The three upper-level local governments played important roles in promoting regional economic growth and coordinating the service delivery system in the capital metropolitan area. Conclusions: This study helps to understand collaborative mechanisms among individual local governments within a fragmented and competitive environment.
2015	Four discourses of the green economy in the global SouthThis article identifies four contrasting global discourses of the green economy in contemporary usage: green resilience, green growth, green transformation and green revolution. These four discourses are manifested in recent green economy national strategies across the global South, including in Ethiopia, India, South Korea and Brazil. Disaggregating these discourses is politically important, and shows their different implications for broader political economies of the green state in the global South.
2015	News and business cycles for KoreaHow important is “news” about not-yet-realized economic fundamentals in macroeconomic fluctuations for Korea? To address this question, this paper estimates a small open economy real business cycle model embedded with the anticipated components of exogenous shocks. Three main findings emerge based on an analysis of Korean data ranged from 1960:Q2 to 2014:Q4. First, a substantial fraction of the variability of output, consumption, and investment is accounted for by unanticipated shocks. Anticipated shocks play a critical role in causing fluctuations in government spending and trade balance, but their business cycle implications are weak. Second, the contribution of anticipated shocks to output and consumption fluctuations increases from the late 1980s to the onset of the Asian currency crisis of the late 1990s. Anticipated shocks account for a dominant fraction of investment variability during the recession period associated with the Asian currency crisis, and of trade balance movements in the postcrisis period. Finally, the financial friction mechanism, in which the country’s interest rate spread is dependent upon the level of sovereign debt, has substantial implications for the output and investment dynamics in the model.
2015	Open innovation of knowledge citiesPurpose: This research seeks to answer the basic question, "As a city evolves from an industrial city to a knowledge one, are its open innovation activities vitalized?" Design/methodology/approach: In this research, we compare the total number of patent applications, the number of joint applicants of each patent, and the ratio of patents jointly applied, in four Korean cities-Daegu, Kwangju, Cheonann total, top 10 % patent applicants group among total patent applicants, and the lower 70 % patent applicant group among total patent applicants. The research included 144,625 patents submitted to the Korea Patent Office from 1981 to 2010. Findings: As knowledge-based urbanization proceeds, the size of a knowledge city increases. The lowest 70 % of patent applicants (rather than the top 10 %) apply for more patents, and the breadth and depth of open innovation rises. Research limitations/implications (if applicable): This research is limited to mutual patent applications as a target of open innovation. In the future, additional research will need to be conducted on various open innovation channels such as patent citation, intellectual property right transfer, licensing, and M & A. Practical implications (if applicable): To maximize the beneficial characteristics of a knowledge city in a large city, the improvement of open innovation across the city is essential. Social implications (if applicable): If strengthening open innovation by SMEs or start-ups is set as a corporate strategy or a government policy, it will be a source of development of knowledge-based urbanization and continued economic development of a knowledge city, as well as of the total knowledge assets.
2015	Examining industrial interdependence between Japan and South Korea: A FAVAR approachThis paper investigates the economic relationship between Japan and South Korea by incorporating disaggregated output measures. Using a factor-augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) model, we conduct several experiments to test the nature of the interdependence, both in the aggregate and by sector. We find that South Korean output shocks affect the Japanese economy in a significant manner, whereas Japanese output shocks have a limited effect on South Korea. By further examining the transmission mechanism of sectoral output shocks and comparing them with the direction of sectoral trade, we find evidence of cross-border production sharing, which explains the asymmetric results seen in the aggregate output.
2015	Population aging, economic growth, and the social transmission of human capital: An analysis with an overlapping generations modelWe develop a computable overlapping generations model in which the accumulation of human capital is endogenous. The model is similar to that of Fougere et al. (2009) and Sadahiro and Shimasawa (2002). It is, however, distinguished from them in several aspects regarding the individual utility function and the intergenerational transmission of human capital. We use the model to explore the effect of population aging on economic growth in Korea. The simulation shows that population aging causes a decrease in labor supply growth and an increase in capital stock growth, thus yielding capital deepening. The aging of the population may significantly undermine growth potential. However, the result is sensitive to the manner of intergenerational transmission of human capital. Our study shows that the mode of social transmission of human capital is quite important for long-term growth of the economy.
2015	Relationships between polarization and openness in Korean economyInternational trade usually changes the production patterns of an economy. The share of exporting industries tends to increase and that of importing industries tends to decrease. In the process of industrial restructuring, it is natural for the economy to experience a concentration toward exporting industries. At the same time, this concentration might also occur within separate industries; exporting firms tend to grow and the share of other firms tends to decrease. All these changes can result in a polarization of the economy. This paper investigates if this polarization trend occurred in the Korean economy by using industry and firm level data. In particular, we explore the question of whether there is any relationship between polarization and international trade, as there has been a lot of criticism focused on the idea that international trade has resulted in income inequality and polarization of the Korean economy. We calculated the GINI coefficient and other indices to measure the degree of polarization, and we performed regression analysis on the time series and panel data. This paper finds that there is a positive relationship between export ratio and polarization.
2015	China-US trade: A global outlierThis paper investigates whether China's exports to the U.S. are an outlier. Gravity model results indicate that these exports have been more than $100 billion greater than predicted in every year since 2005, and that both processed exports produced within regional value chains and ordinary exports produced using domestic inputs far exceed predicted values. Exports of parts and components from South Korea and Taiwan, the two leading supply chain economies, to China are also outliers. Cointegration evidence indicates that exchange rates throughout the supply chain impact China's exports. While the Chinese renminbi has appreciated since 2005, exchange rates in supply chain countries have depreciated and contributed to China's outsized exports to the U.S.
2015	South Korea’s Geo-economic Engagement in the Middle East: Obstacles and OpportunitiesDespite its relevance and importance in the emerging global order, the partnership between South Korea and the Middle East somehow has failed to capture due attention from the pundits of geostrategy and international political economy. In the conventional discourse, the two entities have neither been characterized as natural allies nor have they been considered as equal trade partners. The engagement and interaction between South Korea and the Middle East has been limited to a story revolving around the narrative of energy security and construction assignments. In an effort to provide a more inclusive view on South Korea-Middle East relations, this paper examines the context and catalysts that are shaping the evolving partnership between the two sides and are opening new vistas for further consolidation. The paper argues that even in the current geopolitical constraints, South Korea and the Middle East have a compelling case than ever before to reignite their partnership for mutual prosperity and peace.
2015	Russia-ASEAN: Trade and global value chainsTraditional trade statistics that originate in customs records are inadequate to measure the complex interdependencies in today's globalised economy, or what is known as the global value chains. The article focuses on Russia-ASEAN trade. The author applies innovative methods of measuring trade in value added terms in order to capture the unobserved bilateral linkages behind the offi cially recorded trade fl ows. First, customs and balance of payments sources of bilateral trade data are briefl y reviewed. For user, there are at least two inherent problems in those data: the inconsistencies in "mirror trade fl ows and the attribution of the origin of a traded product wholly to the exporting country. This results in large discrepancies between Russian and ASEAN "mirror trade data and, arguably, their low importance as each other's trade partners. Next, the author explores new data from inter-country input-output tables that necessarily reconcile bilateral differences and offer greater detail about the national and sectoral origin or destination of traded goods and services. Relevant data are derived from the OECD-WTO TiVA database and are rearranged to obtain various estimates of Russia-ASEAN trade in value added in 2009. The main fi nding is that sizable amount of the value added of Russian origin is embodied in third countries' exports to ASEAN members and ASEAN members' exports to third countries. As a result, the cumulative fl ow of Russia's value added to ASEAN members is estimated to be 62% larger than the direct gross exports, whereas for China and South Korea it is, respectively, 21% and 23% smaller. The indirect, unobserved value added fl ows can be largely explained by the use of Russian energy resources, chemicals and metals as imported inputs in third countries (China, South Korea) and ASEAN members' own production. The contribution of these inputs is then accumulated along the value chain. Finally, the most important sectoral value chains are visualized for readers' convenience. So far, it's apparent that Russia is linked to ASEAN countries through intricate production networks and indirectly contributes to their trade with third countries.
2015	The effects of globalization on macroeconomic dynamics in a trade-dependent economy: The case of KoreaThis paper studies the implications of globalization for the dynamics of macroeconomic variables over the business cycle for a small open trade-dependent economy, such as South Korea.We study the impact of globalization through the lens of a structural model. Globalization is modeled as a time-varying degree of openness in the economy. We estimate the model allowing for non-fully rational expectations, learning by economic agents, and incomplete international financial markets.The empirical results show that globalization led to important changes in the macroeconomic environment. Domestic variables have become much more sensitive toward global measures over the 1991-2012 sample. In particular, domestic output and inflation are significantly affected by global output. Fluctuations in Korean output, inflation, and interest rates, which were driven for the most part by domestic shocks in the early 1990s, are, by the end of the sample, due in large part (roughly 70%) to global shocks (and shocks that are open-economy in nature).
2015	The Role of Parent-Firm Characteristics in Affiliate Activities in South Korean Foreign Direct InvestmentWe examine the role of parent-firm characteristics in affiliate activities, including local sales, exports to Korea, and exports to third countries. We find that parent-firm characteristics apparently affect the selling behaviors of affiliates. First, affiliate local sales increase with higher research and development  intensity and capital intensity but with lower parent wages. Affiliate exports to Korea decrease with higher capital intensity and lower wages, and affiliate exports to third countries rise with higher R&D intensity. We also analyze the extent to which affiliate activities are influenced by country and industry characteristics, and the results coincide with those of conventional motivations for foreign direct investment (FDI).
2015	Does openness lead to sustained economic growth? Export growth versus other variables as determinants of economic growthThis research revisits the issue of economic growth determinants in developing countries with a focus on international integration variables. Four alternative variables are tested, namely, export growth, trade openness, export diversification, and foreign direct investment (FDI), in a single framework. This study finds that export growth is the most robust, in addition to export specialization, and that traditional variables of trade openness and FDI are not robust. This result is based on the econometric estimations that use not only cross-section and fixed-effect panel estimations but also system generalized method of moments estimations. The findings warn against the traditional emphasis on simple trade openness and FDI as policy prescriptions for developing countries. In other words, simply opening an economy for international integration does not guarantee sustained economic growth unless these actions lead to export growth, which requires capability building in indigenous firms and investments in innovations. This observation is consistent with the experiences of successful economies in Asia, such as Korea, Taiwan, and China.
2015	Economic impacts of reunifications in Germany and in KoreaWe measure the evolution of population, investment rates, and total factor productivity  for East Germany and West Germany around their 1990 reunification to create a model that allows us to consider the economic ramifications of a hypothetical reunification between South Korea and North Korea. The scenarios that we consider suggest that worker migration from the North, a decrease in investment, and a slowdown in TFP growth could exert a substantial negative and persistent effect on South Korea's economy although the North is predicted to benefit from more rapid income growth. We also summarize the economic and policy questions that our quantified model illuminates.
2015	What drives the R&amp;D capacity growth of foreign subsidiaries? A study of MNE subsidiaries in KoreaWe propose and test a model of antecedents of research and development  capacity growth in foreign subsidiaries of multinational enterprises (MNEs) which considers subsidiaries’ knowledge sourcing activities as well as aspects of headquarters?subsidiary relationships. An analysis of survey data collected from 118 foreign subsidiaries in South Korea reveals that their R&D capacity growth is positively related to external knowledge sourcing, but only marginally associated with internal knowledge sourcing. We also find that subsidiaries’ R&D capacity growth is positively related to their managerial autonomy. Furthermore, cultural distance between MNE home and host countries has a marginal negative effect on R&D capacity growth and weakens the link between internal knowledge sourcing and R&D capacity growth. Overall, our results suggest that researchers, managers, and policy-makers who are concerned with the growth of R&D activities by MNE foreign subsidiaries should consider knowledge sourcing dimensions and relational factors not in an isolated manner, but in concert.
2015	The role of universities in the national innovation systems of China and the East Asian NIEs: An exploratory analysis of publications and patenting dataThe Triple Helix model highlights the ‘third mission’ of universities to engage in IP (intellectual property) creation and technology transfer activities further downstream. This paper uses publications data and US patent data to examine the role played by leading research-intensive universities in the national innovation systems of the emerging economy of China and the newly industrialised economies (NIE) of Singapore, Hong Kong, Korea and Taiwan. Our analysis highlights significant differences amongst these five East Asian economies, and also reveals contrasts to observed patterns in the USA and Europe. Our findings confirm that universities in the five economies have increased their contribution to their respective national innovation systems in terms of research output and R&D collaboration. The NIE universities experienced rapid patent growth rates over 1995?2005, followed by Chinese universities in the subsequent period of 2006?2010. However, the contribution of universities in all five East Asian economies to the total volume of IP creation in their economies generally remains low. Moreover, patent quality is low compared to patents from non-university sectors, suggesting weak technology commercialisation impacts.
2015	Japan's special tariff system: Practice of administrationThis paper examines Special Tariff System (tokubetsu kanzei seido) and its role in the system of trade remedies in Japan. By particularly focusing on measures of anti-dumping, countervailing, emergency, and retaliatory duties the authors implement a comprehensive analysis on both theoretical background and empirical case studies of application of the Special Tariff System and identify peculiar features of its regulation by government authorities. This paper argues that the specificity of Japan's Special Tariff System is mainly expressed in its institutional context, comprising of salient state regulation, lack of legal transparency and dispersion of the regulating acts on trade remedies in the system of Japanese legislation, pluralism of regulatory authorities and overlapping of their jurisdiction in managing the application of such measures. In addition, this paper provides a systematic view of current legislation on trade remedies in Japan and aims to identify the reasons of infrequent practical application of the Special Tariff System. The authors conclude that bureaucratic barriers, low integrity of the legislation on trade remedies, lack of cooperation between regulatory authorities, resource-based structure of Japanese import are the factors accountable for the infrequency of practical application of the System. Nevertheless, due to the increased import of goods from emerging economies in recent years, namely from China, Republic of Korea, and Taiwan, there is a high probability that the sphere of application of Japan's Special Tariff System might be extended.
2015	Debt, maturity, and corporate governance: Evidence from KoreaUsing a unique survey data set, I examine how corporate governance practices of listed Korean firms can affect debt ratio and debt maturity structure. I find that firms with poor governance tend to have a higher debt ratio (especially short-term debt ratio) than firms with good governance. I also show that the documented relationships between corporate governance and debt ratio and between corporate governance and debt maturity are not significantly different between chaebol (Korean business group) and non-chaebol firms. These findings suggest that (short-term) debt financing can be used as a monitoring tool to mitigate agency problems because financial intermediaries monitor the managers of the borrowing firms. This study contributes to the corporate governance literature by providing evidence that debt capital, especially short-term debt, can be used as a complementary monitoring tool for poorly governed firms in an emerging economy.
2015	The impacts of high-speed rail extensions on accessibility and spatial equity changes in South Korea from 2004 to 2018The construction of South Korean High-Speed Rail (HSR) or Korea Train eXpress (KTX) has been evolving in phases since its first operation in 2004. This development raises concerns whether the benefits from the extended HSR network would again be limited to the initial HSR corridors and will deepen the inequalities in accessibility with the rising issue of uneven regional development of the country. This paper measures the accessibility of each stage of HSR network extension and evaluates its spatial distribution, variation, and changes using weighted averaged travel time and potential accessibility indicators. The results of this study find different accessibility impacts from each stage of HSR extension. Although travel-time reduction and increased attractions have been widened in more cities by each HSR extension, the spatial equity is degenerated by the extension in 2010/2011 as the improvement of accessibility has been concentrated in cities along the primary HSR corridor near the already-advantageous Seoul capital area. In contrast, the future HSR extension in 2018 will enhance equitable accessibility to the isolated regions such as the northeast and the southwest regions of the country. However, the relative degree of accessibility improvement will not be large enough for increasing the spatial equity of accessibility without more extended HSR networks between provinces.
2015	On the puzzling slowdown of wage and productivity growth in Taiwan: Evidence from a comparison with South KoreaSince the early 2000s, the growth rate of real wages in Taiwan has been very low, even negative for high-skilled workers. This paper sheds light on the potential causes of this puzzling development through a comparison of Taiwan's performance with that of South Korea. In many dimensions, most notably wages and labour productivity, both economies developed quite similarly between 1995 and 2001-02, but diverged thereafter. We relate the development of wages and labour productivity in the two economies to sectoral structural change and to sectoral differences in labour productivity growth, skills upgrading, and foreign trade.
2015	The Politics of Developmental State Persistence: Institutional Origins, Industrialization, and Provincial ChallengeHow and why do developmental state institutions persist? We address this conceptual question through an empirical puzzle: even though Pakistan and Turkey, like South Korea and Taiwan, constructed postwar developmental state institutions, the Pakistani and Turkish economies have been unable to upgrade to higher value-added production following the Korean and Taiwanese experience. If, as many scholars argue, the creation of developmental state institutions is necessary and sufficient for high growth outcomes, how can we understand the divergence between these two sets of cases? We argue that that the persistence of developmental state institutions is contingent on the absence of articulated opposition from agrarian actors and provincial capitalists against regimes of industrial promotion. While Korea and Taiwan suppressed or co-opted potential challengers from the countryside, such actors in Pakistan and Turkey effectively challenged the developmental state in the mid-1970s. We suggest that the politics of developmental state persistence are analytically distinct from the origins of developmental states, thus enabling a more dynamic understanding of the relationship between the politics of developmental state institutions and late industrialization.
2015	Housing and business cycles in Korea: A multi-sector Bayesian DSGE approachThe Korean housing market showed booms in the early 2000s and sharp fluctuations after the U.S. financial crisis. The recent increase in volatility in the housing market has motivated greater attention to the relationship between the housing market and the Korean economy. This paper develops a dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) model with the housing construction sector and analyzes the role of housing in the Korean business cycles. The results indicate that the model incorporating the collateral role of houses in conjunction with predetermined pricing in the housing construction sector provides a reasonably good fit to the data. In addition, the paper conducts policy simulations of a changing loan-to-value (LTV) ratio ceiling and finds its significant effects on financially constrained households' consumption.
2015	How absorptive capacity is formed in a latecomer economy: Different roles of foreign patent and know-how licensing in KoreaDifferent from previous studies that tend to use in-house research and development  as a proxy for absorptive capacity but fail to reveal the origins of this R&D ability, this paper attempts to determine the origin of absorptive capacity (AC) after defining such concept as the capability of a firm to conduct in-house R&D and to generate innovation outcomes. This paper distinguishes three forms of foreign technology acquisitions based on unique data from Korea, namely, know-how-only licensing, know-how-and-patent licensing, and patent-only licensing. An econometric analysis demonstrates that a firm tends to involve know-how licensing before it starts in-house R&D, whereas patent licensing is not significantly related to conducting R&D. Therefore, a substitution effect is found between foreign patent licensing and conducting in-house R&D, which is in contrast to the inducing effect of know-how licensing for in-house R&D. It is also found that conducting in-house R&D, and know-how licensing by a firm, respectively, is significantly related to a generation of innovations or patent applications in next periods. This study shows that a learning process that involves foreign technology, especially tacit knowledge in the form of know-how, occurs before firms can conduct in-house R&D and innovations.
2015	A comparative study on the micro-enterprise protection systems between Korea and the United StatesThe purpose of this study is to look into the conflicting parts of the KORUS FTA and the small enterprise protection system and seek out practical measures to protect small and medium enterprises. To achieve this purpose,this study investigated the conflicting relationship between the KORUS FTA and the letter of the law in the small and medium enterprise protection system. Considering that hypermarkets or Super-supermarkets (SSM) are in most serious situation,the scope of study was limited to Article 12 - Service Area of the KORUS FTA. Thus,the study investigated the relationship between the small and medium enterprise protection system and Article 12.2(National Treatment),12.4(Access to Market) and 12.7(Domestic Regulations) of KOR-US FTA,which propose possibility of conflict. Meanwhile,letters of the KORUS FTA,which can conflict with the small and medium enterprise protection system,were presented by classifying the pessimistic and optimistic ones.
2015	Korea and Turkey free trade agreement: A qualitative and quantitative assessmentThe trade volume and diversity of the products traded between Korea and Turkey has been increasing since the early 2000s. On top of this,the enthusiasm of the countries in exploring new opportunities led them to start negotiations on signing a free trade agreement in 2010. The process was finalized in 2012. The agreement requires that all trade tariffs on industrial products and most of the tariffs on agricultural products will be removed in seven and ten years,respectively. To the best of our knowledge,this study is the first one that investigates possible economic impacts of this agreement on the Korean and Turkish economies. It employs a computable general equilibrium model and uses the Global Trade Analysis Project database. It finds that the agreement will benefit both parties in terms of GDP and exports. In particular,total gains of Korea and Turkey will be as high as 0.129 and 0.054 percent of their respective GDPs. Finally,the exports of Korea might increase up to 0.139 percent whereas that of Turkey might increase by 0.164 percent.
2015	Effect of foreign trade credit insurance on foreign tradeBased upon the gravity model and data period of 1992~2013,this empirical research analyses the impact of Foreign trade Credit insurance as a determinant of bilateral trade volume between the Republic of Korea and its top ten trading partners. In order to overcome a potential endogeneity issue between trade volume and the insurance,we employ the dynamic panel analysis technique in addition to a time series-cross sectional pooling model,fixed effect model,and random effect model. Focusing on the effect of the insurance variable,we control the other important variables to influence the trade volume including gross domestic production and geographical distance. As expected,the insurance is found to be an important variable to determine the volume of bilateral trade flow in most models while the distance is a negative determinant of trade volume,as the gravity model implies. The empirical results,showing an increase of trade volume following an additional one unit of the insurance,implies that Korean trade would grow faster if shifting to large and close economies,as the gravity model tells,while the insurance can play a pivotal role to support those transactions.
2015	A schumpeterian analysis of the Saemaul Undong Movement in 1970s South Korea within the CDD frameworkIn the 1970s, the Park Chung Hee government launched the Saemaul Undong (New Village) Movement to address the widening urban-rural income gap. This is often interpreted as a politicallymotivated project due to the fact that promoting the SU movement requires a political system capable of sufficient gathering of resources. This paper takes on a different perspective in looking at the components of the SU movement. The goal of this paper is two-pronged: to identify elements of Community-Driven Development (CDD) in the SU movement, and to analyze the SU movement using Schumpeterian concepts in order to draw some implications from the SU model for the economic development in the developing world. While the movement was implemented prior to the conception of CDD as a framework, the elements of CDD of community participation, civic capacities and resource availability were already used. On the other hand, the Schumpeterian concepts of endogenous growth (administrative arrangements, communal empowerment and the community funding), creative destruction (developing civic capacities and ideological reform), innovation (spread of agricultural and non-agricultural technologies), entrepreneurship (Saemaul leaders and education) and minimal role of state (incentive-oriented strategy of the government) were identified in the components of the SU movement.
2015	Role of hanban in taking China closer to the world-an educationalist understanding of its function in IndiaA novel platform initiated by Chinese people to take China closer to the world was the launch of Confucius Institute in 2004 at Seoul, South Korea. It iscommitted to making the Chinese language, culture, teaching resources and services reachable to the world. The motive of the establishment of Confucius Institutes is that heartening non-Chinese to appreciate more about China and Chinese that will lead them to widen more positive attitudes towards China itself. The bureaucratexplanation given for the proliferation of Confucius Institutes is that they support interest in and admiration for Chinese culture and language abroad; detonation of Confucius Institutes is often mentioned against the background of a larger endeavour to increase China's cultural 'soft power' worldwide.
2015	Consumer user innovation in Korea: an international comparison and policy implicationsThis study examines the extent to which individual consumers develop and share user innovations in Korea, extending previous studies of consumer innovation activities undertaken in advanced countries. Using a research method similar to those used in prior studies, this study finds that about 1.5% of adult consumers have generated innovations for their own use during the past three years, and 21.9% of consumer innovators share their innovations with other consumers or firms. Consumers who are male, working, and highly educated are more likely to generate innovations. Moreover, consumer innovators tend to share their innovations, when they are young and participate in community activities and when their innovations have higher values to others. The total amount of innovation expenditure by consumers exceeds 0.34 billion US dollars, which accounts for 4.4% of the R&D investment of Korean firms in the consumer goods sector. Although the proportion of consumer user innovators in Korea is relatively lower than that found in advanced countries, the number of consumers who generate innovations and their innovation expenditures are far from being negligible. As a result, this study suggests a few government policies to encourage and facilitate development, diffusion, and commercialisation of consumer innovations in late industrialising contexts, including Korea.
2015	Introduction of shareholder-friendly behaviors after governance reform in Korean firms: Is It a proactive response?Since the currency crisis in 1997, there have been many efforts for corporate governance reform in Asia and Korea. In this article, we intend to analyze the effect of the reform process in Korean companies. We show that the decrease in controlling shareholder ownership, the increase in the ownership rates of institutional investors and foreign investors, and the increased ratio of outside directors are related to the increase in stock repurchase amount and dividend payout. The increase in stock repurchase and dividend payout represents the shareholder-friendly behaviors of Korean firms after the crisis. It is shown that governance reform efforts in Korea have at least increased the shareholder-friendly behaviors of the companies. However, after the crisis, Korean firms increased cash holdings by reducing research and development  investments and utilized increased cash holdings to pay stock repurchase and dividends. This raises the question of whether shareholder-friendly management resulting from governance reform was only an institutional isomorphism from responding passively to outside pressure.
2015	What happened to the Miracle Eight? Looking East in the twenty-first centuryAll developing countries have been "looking East" since the rise of the Asian tigers, especially South Korea and Taiwan. The designation of the Southeast Asian economies as "tiger cubs" implies the question: can would-be tigers become tigers? Against the background of both oriental globalisation and China's effect on the region, this article compares trends in Northeast and Southeast Asia in agriculture, industry and services. State and political institutions are part of the comparison. As the conclusion notes, the new imperative for sustainable and inclusive growth excludes simply retracing the tigers development path: political change, in both national and regional institutions, is needed for the reforms in land, fiscal and industrial policy that will permit Southeast Asia to escape the middle-income trap.
2015	Nonparametric Evaluation of Economies of Scope in the Context of Technical Efficiency: The Case of Rice and Vegetable Farms in KoreaThis paper provides a nonparametric evaluation of economies of scope in the context of technical efficiency allowing for non-convexity, with an application to Korean rice and vegetable farms. Relying on non-parametric-free disposal hull and data envelopment analysis approaches and input-output data for rice and vegetable farms from the Korea Farm Household Economy Survey data collected in 2007, this article examines technical inefficiency and its decomposition under non-convexity and convexity. Empirical measures of technical inefficiency and its decomposition results are provided, with a focus on a component of technical inefficiency associated with economies of scope (i.e. diversification benefits) under non-convexity in production technology. The decomposition measures of technical inefficiency include pure technical inefficiency, size inefficiency and diversification inefficiency. The results provide empirical evidence supporting size-dependent diversification strategies, where benefits of diversification are larger for small farms on average compared to those of large farms.
2015	The stabilizing state: State capitalism as a response to financial globalization in one-party regimesABSTRACT: One of the most important developments in the modern global economy is financial globalization. This has raised threats to the stability of political regimes in two ways: (1) by enhancing the possibility of a financial crisis that could cause political turmoil; and (2) by easing access to foreign sources of financing for opposition political groups. I argue that state capitalism ? defined as state-owned publicly listed corporations ? is greater among one-party regimes as a way to address these dual threats. One-party regimes have both the motivation and a greater institutional capacity for addressing these threats in comparison to other regimes. Tests are conducted on 607 firms in 1996 and 856 firms in 2008 across seven East Asian economies, and are supplemented with case studies of Malaysia and South Korea. The evidence suggests that financial globalization is contributing to the rise of the state as a counter reaction.
2015	Optimal macroprudential policy for Korean economyFujimoto et al. (2014) set up a model with financial frictions through search and matching between firms and banks in the loan market. They also show that optimal policy criteria in the model include terms of credit variables. In this paper, we calibrate the model of Fujimoto et al. (2014) for South Korea and investigate the simple and optimal monetary and macroprudential policy rules that include credit variables in addition to the consumption gap and inflation rate as explanatory variables. We compare the performances of a standard Taylor rule and these optimal rules. Numerical simulations show that the simple macroprudential and monetary policy rules with credit terms can induce higher welfare than the estimated Taylor rule for the Korean economy. Simultaneously, simple macroprudential and monetary policy rules with credit terms do not always improve welfare.
2015	The effect of strategic alliances on firm productivity in South KoreaUsing a rich firm-level data set from South Korea, this article analyses the impact of strategic alliances on firm performance, focusing on how firm productivity is affected by alliance types such as joint venture, joint technical development, technical alliance, joint marketing and coproduction as well as alliance structures such as intra- and inter-industry alliances. Total factor productivity  is estimated through the semi-parametric method suggested by Levinsohn and Petrin (2003). In addition, a two-stage least-squares (2SLS) method is applied to reduce the potential endogenous problem between productivity and strategic alliance choices. The empirical results found in this article indicate that the engagement in joint ventures positively affects firm productivity and that the formation of international intra-industry alliances has a positive impact on firm productivity.
2015	Young and Dynamic?-The Curious Case of Korea's National Level Post-2015 ProcessThis paper explores Korea's national-level post-2015 process via contextualising the political economy of Seoul's aid architecture. We examine the global-local discrepancy manifested in its uneven domestic processes where the global development ideas are localised and a uniquely Korean development experience is globalised. In doing so, the paper highlights the vertically and horizontally fragmented system and the lack of capacity, coordination and consistency at the heart of an uneven post-2015 process. An in-depth analysis of Korea's ODA architecture and Saemaul ODA demonstrates how global debates become subject to arbitrary localisation and further divergence to suit vested interests of various actors within Seoul's ODA.
2015	Aid and state transition in Ghana and South KoreaThis paper examines the questions of why and how foreign assistance was utilised successfully in South Korea but less so in Ghana, with a focus on the role of aid in the process of state building and state transition in these two countries. As multiple policy makers and scholars have noted, in 1957 South Korea and Ghana shared similar levels of GDP per capita, yet South Korea then achieved rapid economic development and democracy in one generation, while Ghana suffered from slow development and a general deterioration of the standard of living. In this study I adopt a comparative historical research method to explain the divergent paths of these two countries, with a special focus on the impact of foreign assistance on state transitions. I argue that contextual factors ? including the effect of the colonial legacy in each of these two regions in shaping modern states, and the specific characteristics of foreign assistance intervention ? provide useful insights in explaining the differential impact of aid on state building and state transition in Ghana and in South Korea.
2015	Global value chains of East Asia: Trade in value added and vertical specializationEast Asia is known for its high intra-regional trade of intermediate goods and for its high inter-regional export of final goods in the manufacturing sector. The present study analyzes how this pattern changed between 1995 and 2009, by focusing on the ratio of value added through export of the intermediate goods with respect to value added induced by total exports (VSI) and the ratio of domestic value added due to final demand of the trading partner relative to total exports to that region (VAX). Using our new index of vertical specialization, VSI, we examine the extent to which the rise of the Chinese economy has changed East Asia's role in the global value chain. Our analysis shows that an increasing visibility of China in the global production network has been accompanied by a higher share of intermediate exports, even though China's VSI ratio is still lower than that of Japan or Korea. Meanwhile, the VAX ratio has fallen for all three countries in pairwise trade with one another, much faster than in inter-regional trade with other regions. Vertical specialization has progressed in the major exporting industries in China, Japan and Korea. This seems to reflect the strengthening ability of East Asia to create value added, in contrast to advanced countries in Europe and North America.
2015	Summary Measure for Price and Non-price Competitiveness for ASEAN+3In this paper we apply a comprehensive measure that allows us to distinguish price and non-price aspects of competitiveness. Our measure is computationally demanding but has the advantage of building on a single data source of highly disaggregated trade data. We extend the methodology pioneered by Feenstra (1994), and Broda and Weinstein (2006), and construct an export price index that adjusts for changes in the set of competitors (variety) and changes in non-price factors (quality in a broad sense) for six ASEAN members (the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam) plus China, Japan and Korea. Based on trade data from UN COMTRADE at the Harmonized System six-digit level over the period 2000-2011, we find notable differences between price and non-price competitiveness across markets. China and Vietnam show huge gains in international competitiveness due to non-price factors, while we observe some deterioration in the non-price competitiveness of Japan and Singapore. However, these relative developments do not reflect the existing differences in the absolute levels of the quality of exported goods by those countries.
2015	Diplomatic objectives in trade politics: The development of the China-Japan-Korea FTAThis article seeks to analyze the development of free trade agreement (FTA) policies adopted by China, Japan, and South Korea with particular interests in the trilateral FTA. It seeks to address what the determinant factors that have conditioned the development of the trilateral FTA are. While the three governments began the informal joint study of the trilateral FTA in 2003, they pursued diverse trade strategies that disturbed a shift to formal negotiations. However, China’s strategy to hedge against the US influence in East Asia became a catalyst in shifting from the long-lasting study stage to the launching of negotiations. Moreover, Japan’s strategy to participate in TPP negotiations as a soft balancing against China through closer political linkages with the United States weakened China’s and South Korea’s willingness to engage in the trilateral FTA positively. Thus, the three countries’ commitments to the trilateral FTA were primarily confined by their specific diplomatic objectives responding to the political-economic evolutions in the Asia-Pacific region.
2015	Sovereignty and Central Banking: Evidence from the East Asian Region in the Early 1900sAbstract: This paper examines the connection between sovereignty and central banking through a case study of the Bank of Chos?n in colonial Korea during the 1910s and 1920s. Using historical and statistical analysis, this study shows the particular characteristics and limitations of the Bank of Chos?n and its operations, both within the specific colonial context and under the political and economic conditions imposed by Japanese imperialism, such as a fixed exchange rate and the subordination of the Korean economy to Japan. While the Bank of Chos?n was unable to ultimately exercise independent policy-making, this particular case offers avenues for exploring the historical and policy-making effects upon the relationship between sovereignty and central banking.
2015	Renminbi in Ordinary Economies: A Demand-side Study of Currency GlobalizationMost studies of renminbi internationalization focus on the supply side, by examining China's own economic and political conditions. In contrast, this study addresses the demand side of renminbi internationalization, by providing an in-depth analysis of renminbi use in ordinary foreign economies from both economic and political perspectives, with a particular focus on South Korea, China's next-door neighbor. The study finds that sustainable indigenous market forces facilitating renminbi use in South Korea remain weak, despite the country's close economic ties with China. This research also shows, however, that the Korean Government has itself recently been able, through its policy measures, to generate new domestic support for greater use of the renminbi. These findings ultimately highlight the significant impact on the internationalization of a currency of the politics in the foreign countries using it.
2015	An empirical test for Okun’s law using a smooth time-varying parameter approach: evidence from East Asian countriesThis article investigates Okun’s law for Japan, Korea, Hong Kong and Singapore over the period 1986?2011. Two time-varying parameter models, first-order difference and gap models, are considered to find a negative time-varying relationship between the real output and the unemployment rate. The empirical findings show that there exist time-varying negative relationships between the real output and the unemployment rate for all economies. We also find that the estimated time-varying Okun’s coefficients are dominated by changes in the real GDP for Korea. However, the Okun’s coefficients are dominated by changes in the unemployment rate for Japan, Hong Kong and Singapore.
2015	Macroprudential policies as buffer against volatile cross-border capital flowsThis paper investigates the effectiveness of macroprudential policies introduced by Turkey in late 2010. The unprecedented quantitative easing policies of advanced countries after the global financial crisis have presented serious financial stability concerns for most emerging countries including Turkey. To cope with these challenges, Turkey has devised new policy tools such as asymmetric interest rate corridor and reserve option mechanism. From the perspective of capital flows, the interest rate corridor works mainly through stabilizing supply of foreign funds, and the reserve option mechanism through decreasing the sensitivity of equilibrium exchange rate to shifts in the demand for foreign funds. Using a large panel of 46 countries and employing [Bruno and Shin (2013a). Capital flows, cross-border banking and Global liquidity. Working paper, Princeton university; Bruno and Shin (2013b). Assessing macroprudential policies: Case of Korea. Working paper, Princeton university] methodology, we investigate whether the new policy framework in Turkey has been successful in cushioning the economy from volatile cross-border capital flows from a comparative perspective. The results show that, after controlling for a set of domestic and external variables and relative to a group of advanced and emerging countries, cross-border capital flows to Turkey have been less sensitive to global factors after the implementation of macroprudential policies.
2015	The 'actually existing smart city'This paper grounds the critique of the 'smart city' in its historical and geographical context. Adapting Brenner and Theodore's notion of 'actually existing neoliberalism', we suggest a greater attention be paid to the 'actually existing smart city', rather than the exceptional or paradigmatic smart cities of Songdo, Masdar and Living PlanIT Valley. Through a closer analysis of cases in Louisville and Philadelphia, we demonstrate the utility of understanding the material effects of these policies in actual cities around the world, with a particular focus on how and from where these policies have arisen, and how they have unevenly impacted the places that have adopted them.
2015	The economic geography of North Korean drug trafficking networksHow has the involvement of the North Korean state influenced the geographic development of North Korean drug trafficking networks? In this paper, I use global value chain analysis to examine the characteristics of North Korean trade networks engaged in drug trafficking in two time periods during which state hostility toward drug trafficking varied markedly (from the early 1990s until 2005, when the central state encouraged production and trafficking, and since 2005, when North Korea cracked down on drugs). Access to a favourable institutional environment and state resources was associated with a spatial distribution of drug trafficking activities that was both territorially concentrated and territorially dispersed while the North Korean state sought to control as much of the value chain as possible. In the second period, the North Korean central state deprived many drug trafficking networks of state support, leading to networks with territorial distributions of production, distribution, and retail concentrated within both North Korea and adjacent countries, and more complex business relationships with various levels of the North Korean state, leading to a more distributed capture of value along the value chain.
2015	Productivity growth of newly industrializing economies in heterogeneous capital goods markets: the case of the Korean machinery and equipment industryAlthough many previous studies have investigated the economic growth of East Asian countries from the perspective of productivity growth, they have adopted a limited focus only on the national level or on the aggregated level and have overlooked the heterogeneity at the disaggregated level. Furthermore, only a few studies have examined the sources of the remarkable growth and trade performance of the Korean machinery and equipment industry, despite its importance for sustainable growth of national economy. Therefore, we investigated the Total Factor Productivity Growth (TFPG) of the Korean machinery and equipment industry and its 12 sub-sectors from 1970 to 2012 using the stochastic frontier production approach. As a result, we found that the industry has achieved labour input-driven TFPG largely due to technical progress. This is contrary to the previous result that East Asia has expanded the production frontier by capital accumulation. In contrast, in some sub-sectors, scale effect and allocation efficiency have driven TFPG. We also found distinctive patterns of TFPG across different sub-sectors from the perspectives of the effect of input factors and the pattern of technical progress. These results imply that policy makers should consider industry-specific policy designs that incorporate the specific characteristics of individual sub-sectors.
2014	Universities and entrepreneurship in Asia: The case of nanoThe theoretical concepts of a national innovation system and of a quadruple helix of interactions within a system have been used to characterize American and European successes in transforming knowledge to utility?through research and development and entrepreneurship and new ventures. In this model, research universities and new high-tech ventures have together played a major role in innovating new technologies and new businesses. What kind of government and university policies are needed for this helical innovation model to work in the developing economies of Asia? We examine the case of a new high-tech venture, Nano, in South Korea, in order to understand the conditions facilitating its founding and growth. Since in most countries, small- to medium-sized businesses (SMEs) provide the majority of jobs in an economy, understanding how to improve the university research role in fostering high-tech SMEs is an important global issue.
2014	Managing the transition to critical green growth: The 'Green Growth State'Political will at the national and multilateral scale is coalescing around the emerging discourse of Green Growth. The narratives and practices of Green Growth have already been rejected by many stakeholders as a reformulation of business as usual discourse. However, this article argues that this critique is grounded in a false conflation of distinct interpretations of the concept. In place of homogenising all associated narratives, we argue for an aspirational Critical Green Growth perspective, socially inclusive and conducive to structural transformation, incipiently identified in Asian national policies, particularly Korea. Drawing on this background, and other development insights, we conduct a 'backasting' exercise to identify trajectories leading to this imagined future of Green Growth. We address a key gap in the literature, the lack of dialogue between Green Growth and Developmental State studies. We then argue for the importance of the Green Growth State (GGS) in introducing fundamental change in this critical window of opportunity. Elements of this overarching concept would include broad characteristics of: a flexible and diverse policy mix; value-driven, multi-stakeholder, multi-level governance; public trust and collaboration; and appropriate measurements of progress discouraging commodification of nature.
2014	Development of methodology to assess the effect of cross-cultural differences in the consumer behaviorThe article notes that globalization and the development of international trade leads to an increase in the flow of goods, services, and ideas across borders and cultures, as well as reduction of technological barriers that increases the relevance of cross-cultural research. The purpose of this study is to develop methodological tools to assess the effect of cross-cultural differences in the consumer behavior in the fish and seafood market. A cultural model, reflecting a set of cultural values, the characteristics of material environment (level of scientific and technological development and its potential, natural resources, the level of economic development, and the geographical location of the country), the institutional environment (the value of the family as a social institution, the effect of government regulation and the activities of environmental organizations, as well as the level of literacy and education). The study highlighted specific features of a culture-specific model development with due consideration of fish and seafood markets. The results of testing the proposed survey frame are presented through the example of Asia-Pacific (AP) region countries, such as China, Russia and South Korea.
2014	Developments of and challenges to basic research funding in science and engineering sectors of korea: The role of national research foundation of Korea (NRF)Today, Korea faces a new challenge in the field of basic research: the country has attained a goal in terms of the amount of growth, but it needs to improve its quality of research. Korean researchers need to demonstrate excellence in their research, a far more critical issue than the number of papers published. Considering the current research ability in the country, they also need to show more creativity and forge better links with business. This paper calls for a new policy on research within basic science and technology, at a turning point in the history of research funding in Korea. In particular, it explains the development of research funding focusing on the NRF’s role, discusses the performance of and some problems in research funding, and finally makes recommendations for an NRF funding policy that could usher in a new era of research excellence in Korea. We hope this paper will help construct a theoretical framework for a basic research funding system for science and technology in Korea. In addition, we expect this paper will give some practical guidance for other developing countries trying to foster R&D capabilities in basic science.
2014	Scientists and engineers in convergence technologies in Korea: where are they going and how do they collaborate?Abstract: Today convergence technologies have become a major issue in science policy. This paper describes the current state of scientific collaboration in convergence technologies among researchers in South Korea, by conducting survey and the Social Network Analysis (SNA) with a data set of 1,095 researchers who have involved in the development of the convergence technologies. The main research findings are fivefold. First, dominant numbers of researchers are involved in convergence technology with IT because IT is recognized as the most competitive technology in Korea. Second, mobility of researchers is active in convergence technologies. Third, it is found that the researchers in convergence technologies are more productive in terms of the number of research papers per capita than those in other scientific fields. Fourth, they, however, show limited research collaboration, compared with their high productivity. Finally, the members of the network in convergence technologies are closer to each other than those in other scientific fields, but most of their collaborative relationships remain bilateral rather than triangular. Only a few researchers act as hubs, revealing that collaborative research relationship in convergence technologies in Korea is highly concentrated. At the last part, some policy recommendations to promote research collaboration in convergence technologies are discussed.
2014	Comparing the Climate Policy Performance of Emerging EconomiesDomestic climate policies and the actual environmental performance differ between emerging economies. Using a fuzzy set Qualitative Comparative Analysis (QCA), this paper tests the influence of the domestic green industry, the ratio of fossil fuels to financial power, the international negotiating position, and the environmental civil society in Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Mexico, and South Africa. A bad ratio of domestic fossil fuel production to financial power and a weak environmental civil society are a sufficient condition for weak climate policy performance. A weak domestic green industry combined with a weak influence of the negotiations only explains some of the cases. ⓒ 2014 Elsevier Ltd.
2014	The South Korean auto industry's path to maturitySince 1962, South Korea has recognized the motor vehicle industry as a critical industry for economic development. The government has been closely involved in the industry's growth from infancy to its current position among the top five motor vehicle producers in the world. In its early years, the industry also gained technological knowhow through licensing agreements rather than investing heavily in research and development. The results of this study strongly suggest that the industry as a whole has achieved a minimum efficient scale of operations. However, cross price elasticity estimates indicate that many rigidities exist in the input markets, particularly with respect to outsourced intermediate products. The restrictions on imports of these products may have to be reduced as South Korea seeks to expand its global trade footprint by participating in bilateral preferential trade agreements, presenting challenges for the industry. ⓒ 2014 Elsevier Inc.
2014	Sing, dance, and be merry: The key to successful urban development?This study examines a unique case of urban redevelopment conflict in Seoul, South Korea. The Duriban case is one of the few urban redevelopment cases in South Korea that was peacefully resolved with protection of tenants' rights. The research aimed to answer why this case was peacefully resolved while other redevelopment cases have been contentious and even violent. Through documentary analysis and in-depth interviews with key actors, we identified the following eight categories as important factors: emotional support; sympathy; loose networks or bonds; continued action and volunteerism; place of interaction and bonding; encouragement and motivation for participation; transformation of physical space into a psychological space; and creating a meaningful and symbolic space. The findings highlight how community building through arts and cultural activities can be an important tool for socially just urban redevelopment. ⓒ the author(s).
2014	Thailand insurance regulation: Highlights &amp; time to Go AheadThis paper presents Thailand's insurance regulatory highlights and compares with 15 Asian countries. The comparison focuses on government regulators, minimum capital requirements, solvency regulation, policyholder protection fund and foreign ownership restrictions. Because of different complexity in insurance business and economic culture in each countries, the policymakers appoint insurance regulator who works under various departments, different from country to country, such as The Ministry of Finance (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, the Philippines, Vietnam, and Thailand), a Central Bank (Malaysia, and Singapore), and some other Government Agencies (China, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, and Hong Kong). For licensed insurers, the highest minimum paid-up capital is USD52 million in Taiwan, and the lowest paid-up capital is USD1 million in Hong Kong due to Hong Kong liberalizing insurance market requiring no restriction in investment. Risk Based Capital has been evolving rapidly across Asian countries particularly in Japan, Indonesia, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, South Korea, The Philippines and Thailand. The protection funds for policyholders in the event of insurer insolvency were already established in most countries except Cambodia and Laos, who require deposit protection fund with local government. Regarding foreign ownership regulation, there are no restrictions in Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Vietnam; whilst other countries, namely China, Taiwan, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, and Thailand, gradually release the market access restrictions. In assessing insurance regulation, this is helpful for understanding the current insurance legislation and future development for Thailand insurance regulation.
2014	Exchange rate volatility and intra-Asia trade: Evidence by type of goodsThis paper examines the impact of intra-Asia exchange rate volatility on intra-Asia trade in primary goods, intermediate goods, equipment goods and consumption goods from 1980 to 2009. For Asia, the evidence shows that as intraregional exchange rate volatility increases, intraregional exports in these goods fall. This adverse impact is even more pronounced in the subregion of Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)+5 comprising ASEAN member countries plus the People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; Japan; the Republic of Korea; and Taipei, China; and especially among intermediate and equipment exports. Again, the impact magnifies in an even smaller subgroup excluding the smaller ASEAN economies. These results underline the significant impact of exchange rate volatility on the region's production networks. For South Asia, however, exchange rate volatility appears to have a positive impact on exports. Still, caution is warranted given that South Asian economies trade relatively little with each other. ⓒ 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.
2014	Implication for cities of the liberalizing national economies in twenty-first centuryFor cities, the liberalization of national economies and the creation of a global economy have profound and far-reaching implications: global capitalist restructuring has been a key force in reshaping cities during the late1980s, 1990s and 2000s; it has demanded the production and use of new information technologies and in doing so, has forged new relationships among new technologies and new spatial forms and processes in cities. Technological innovation and territorial restructuring have also deeply modified cities' emerging socio-economic systems. At the centre of change are the three major global cities - New York, Tokyo and London (Sassen, 1993). Other cities that have been affected by the liberalization and creation of a global economy are found mainly in newly industrializing Asian countries such as Seoul, Singapore and Hong Kong. Bombay, Mexico City and cities in South America are among countries in the developing world that have experienced some change in their economies in response to changing world conditions, but are still constrained by protectionist policies. Among these changes, therefore, this study will focus on structural change occurring in cities in the developed countries, particularly New York, London and Tokyo. ⓒ 2013 Taylor & Francis.
2014	Transitions of Innovation Activities in Latecomer Countries: An Exploratory Case Study of South KoreaThe main aim of this study is to explore the diverse route of innovation activities and key characteristics during the transition period of the emerging economies using the analytical framework of innovation system and product life cycle. Study distinguishes three archetypes of innovation activities: deepening of the process, architectural, and radical innovations. Study also argues that each route of innovation activities in the transition period of the emerging economies requires corresponding institutional frameworks, different base of capabilities, and different relationships among innovation actors to facilitate the transition from imitator to innovator. Finally, some policy implications of this attribute are considered. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
2014	An empirical analysis on Korean consumer welfare levels accounting for U.S.A. product price fluctuations after the Korea-U.S.A. FTA effectuationAs the Korea-US FTA comes into force,economic exchanges are being actively and lively made,and the follow-up effects are expected to increase in all sectors,such as GDP,consumer welfare,employment,exports,import,trade balance and foreign investment in terms of the macro-economy. In addition,the ensuing reduction in tariffs on US products is expected to improve consumer welfare by increasing imports and lowering domestic consumer prices. With the domestic consumers of US goods,the present study aims to compare the US product prices before and after the effectuation of the Korea-US FTA and to measure the consumer welfare pursuant to the changes in product prices. The analysis shows the following results. First,meat,juice (beverage) and groceries (nuts) satisfied welfare by decreasing in price after the effectuation of the FTA. Second,meat,groceries (nuts),clothes and fashion products have significant influences on welfare according to the multiple regression analysis. One consistent result is that the decrease in tariffs leads to drops in consumer prices and then increases in consumer welfare.
2014	Does Korea’s official development assistance promote its exports?: Theoretical and empirical analysesThis paper aims to contribute to narrowing the knowledge gap of aid effects on donor’s exports through theoretical and empirical analyses of various ODA types. To explain how aid affects donor’s exports,we constructed a theoretical framework that considers aid as “public goods” with externality effects. We also estimate augmented gravity equations using Korea’s bilateral exports and ODA data,employing Hausman-Taylor Method and system-GMM to address the endogeneity problem. Through the long-term analysis with aggregated data,we confirmed the positive effects of total ODA,loans,grants and economic aid but no such effect in non-economic (humanitarian) aid. At the sub-sector level,we found out that in some cases infrastructure aid had no effects and humanitarian aid showed positive effects,which was contrary to the results obtained analyzing aggregated data. These conflicting results imply that the effects of ODA on exports depend on both ODA types and industrial sectors. By comparing two distinct periods,we found out that the vanguard effects of ODA on donor exports have lasted even after untying aid was introduced. These results show that donors are not necessarily anxious about expanding untying aid,since they are highly likely to continue to benefit if aid packages are well designed. The government efforts to sophisticatedly make the combination of various ODA types would not only enhance the trade creation effects of ODA but also secure domestic supports for scaling up ODA; hence eventually helping the international community to mobilize financial resources.
2014	Short-term external debt and foreign exchange rate volatility in emerging economies: Evidence from the Korea MarketWe empirically analyze the main determinants of foreign exchange rate (FX) volatility in emerging market economies using the data of Korea corporations and financial institutions. We find that short-term external debt is more important than trading volume of foreign investors in explaining FX volatility. Our results suggest that short-term debtcontrolling measures, such as a tax levy on short-term borrowing, can be more effective in moderating FX volatility than can the measures affecting the trading volume, such as a Tobin tax.
2014	Foreign Currency Noncore Bank Liabilities and Macroprudential Levy in KoreaUsing bank-level data in Korea, we examine empirical properties of foreign currency noncore bank liabilities and assess policy effectiveness of the macroprudential levy introduced in postcrisis Korea. Our panel regression and VAR analyses indicate that the foreign currency noncore bank liability ratio yields significant information on the vulnerability of banks, and the macroprudential levy has exerted nontrivial effects on the noncore funding of banks, leading to the mitigation of foreign currency liquidity risks of Korea's banks. Our findings strengthen the rationale for using appropriate macroprudential policies as a guard against financial vulnerability in open emerging economies.
2014	Why is the Inter-firm Credit Market in Korea Special? An Agency View of Trade Credit Use by ChaebolsWe study inter-firm credit (also known as trade credit (TC) or the delayed payment a supplier allows its downstream customer on a product sale) with an emphasis on its unique features in Korea. It is the prominence of chaebol-affiliated firms in the Korean economy that makes Korea unique because chaebol firms are linked together by common ownership and thus distort the assumption common to all theories of TC that the input supplier is independent from its customer. We find several aspects of TC use by chaebols. First, viewed as input purchasers, these firms take more TC (the chaebol effect). The amount of TC taken is positively related to purchases from other chaebol affiliates (the affiliate effect), and with the degree of the chairman's ownership-control disparity (the ownership multiplier effect). Also TC as proportion of short-term debt increases significantly after profit growth (the profit effect). Furthermore, chaebol members give less TC although this is strongly correlated with transactions with affiliates. We suggest a unifying interpretation of these patterns based on agency cost: TC, by substituting for external financing and reducing monitoring by outsiders, presents controlling minority owners the opportunity to misuse their greater control for their own benefit.
2014	The Political Economy of Reforming Financial Supervision in South KoreaThis study examines the reform trajectory of financial supervision in South Korea after the 1980s, focusing on external and internal political?economic factors. Research results indicate that the changed economic landscape led the government, which once utilized financial supervision as a tool to support industrial policy, to alter its aims and pursue the development of the financial market itself. During this transformational process, the 1997 Asian financial crisis functioned as a powerful stimulus for the reform of the previous supervisory system. The process was also marked by social actors’ efforts to affect related policies and the government’s efforts to control the reform process, as well as confrontations between organizations that supported contradictory reform plans. A multi-strategy approach including in-depth interviews with a senior staff member from a government financial regulatory agency, literature reviews, and secondary data collection, was adopted in order to enhance the validity and reliability of this paper.
2014	Exporting national champions: China's Outward foreign direct investment finance in comparative perspectiveWe examine the extent to which Chinese development banks have financed the globalization of China's "national champion" firms: specifically, through outward foreign direct investment (OFDI). We create a database of Chinese finance for OFDI and compare our results to the existing literature and available data on Japan, Korea and other Asian nations. We estimate the total value of China's OFDI finance from 2002 to 2012 at US$140bn. As a percentage of total OFDI, China's lending is roughly three times higher than Japan's, the previous global leader in OFDI finance. We identify two major reasons for China's high (31 percent) ratio of OFDI lending to total OFDI. First, China has a greater incentive to give OFDI loans than Japan or Korea ever did because its borrowers are state-owned so it can more easily channel funds to targeted areas. Second, China has a greater capacity to give OFDI loans because it has significantly higher savings and foreign exchange reserves than Japan and Korea.
2014	Estimating Open Economy New Keynesian Phillips Curve for KoreaWe estimate the open economy new Keynesian Philips curve (NKPC) to characterize the inflation dynamics of Korea. While recent studies show that the NKPC holds for the pre-currency crisis period, the empirical evidence is inconclusive for the post-crisis period. Has globalization increased the role of global factors relative to domestic factors? Can labor income share still serve as a good measure of real marginal cost following the structural break? To address these issues for the post-crisis period, we use two types of open NKPC: the relative prices model and the incomplete pass-through model. The estimation of both models indicates that the forward-looking behavior is important, and its role is reinforced in an open economy specification. Both NKPC models also show that the external factors are more relevant inflation drivers than the domestic factors.
2014	Trends and Determinants of Social Expenditure in Korea, Japan and TaiwanSocial expenditure analyses have always been a central topic of research for welfare states in Western Europe, with more institutional approaches added to such studies later in time. Research on welfare states in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, on the contrary, has a shorter history, and attention has been paid more on understanding politico-economic institutions on a case-by-case basis, instead of focusing on social expenditure causes and dynamics. This study aims to contribute to the literature with an up-to-date comparative perspective in the study of public social expenditures in Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, in a two-fold way. First, after discussing briefly the state of art of research on welfare in East Asia, descriptive data on public social expenditure trends in Korea, Japan and Taiwan are presented in comparison with industrialized welfare states in the West. Second, a pooled cross-sectional regression analysis for panel data is run to uncover the determinants of social expenditure in Korea, Japan and Taiwan. A new comparative dataset has been constructed by merging secondary data on public social expenditures and socio-economic and political variables made publicly available by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the Taiwanese national government. Results seem to suggest that there is a serious need of better conceptualizing political determinants of welfare expenditures in East Asia, since they will probably represent the most important field for welfare development in these countries in years to come.
2014	The 'Chameleon' Korean welfare regimeThe path-breaking work of Gosta Esping-Andersen (1990), The Three Worlds of Welfare Capitalism, was based on 18 countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 1980, and subsequently has been largely limited to 'advanced Western' OECD nations. However, this ignores much work on the East Asian welfare model (EAWM). This article aims to export the 'welfare modeling business' to East Asia in general and to Korea in particular. We search for articles in English or Korean which aim to classify Korea. We find 26 studies that are rather different in terms of concepts, measures and analysis. Korea seems to be a 'chameleon' changing its appearances to different viewers, with some support for almost every possible classification, apart from the social democratic regime. We find six possible types: liberal; conservative; hybrid; EAWM as the fourth regime; EAWM as a distinct regime; and underdeveloped. In addition, some studies suggest that Korea is moving too fast to enable a clear classification. The modal conclusion is of a fourth regime, but there are some differences between writers and over time, with scholars writing in Korean having a rather different view to scholars writing in English, and with early Korean writers placing Korea in the original triad, but later studies favouring a distinct world. We conclude that it is not clear whether the Western welfare modelling business can be successfully exported to other parts of the world without a change in strategy (concepts and measures).
2014	Presidents, prime ministers and politics of care - why Korea expanded childcare much more than JapanJapan and South Korea have been known as 'familialistic' welfare states, where the family was the main caregiver. Both countries are in the process of transformation. Today, their welfare states provide more care services than never before. Korea has expanded care services much more rapidly than Japan. Korea today outperforms Japan and many other countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in enrolment rates of children up to the age of three in childcare. We develop an institutional model to explain why Korea responded to childcare needs much more drastically than Japan. We also apply the same model to explain why Korea prioritized childcare over elderly care, while Japan has done just the opposite.
2014	The Expansion of the Korean Welfare State and Its Results - Focusing on Long-term Care Insurance for the ElderlySince the early 2000s, there has been considerable expansion of the Korean welfare state. In particular, a new compulsory long-term care insurance (LTCI) for older people was introduced in 2008, facilitating the socialization of long-term care (LTC) services at a national level. This study aims to examine how the Korean welfare state has coped with the increasing LTC needs of older people caused by introducing and implementing a new LTCI system and reforming it. This study argues that the LTCI was designed to meet limited objectives, such as providing minimal coverage and affording private for-profit market forces a predominant role in the provision of LTCI services. Owing to the implementation of the insurance, a number of achievements and shortcomings with respect to the LTCI have become evident. To address the challenges that have emerged, the Korean government announced a reform plan in 2012, which emphasized changes such as increasing coverage and improving the quality of services. Although the reform plan also shows a number of fundamental limitations, it is expected to contribute to the development of the Korean LTCI to a certain extent.
2014	Why the Social Investment Approach is Not Enough - The Female Labour Market and Family Policy in the Republic of KoreaDespite the gradual increase in the female labour market activity rate in most of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the rate has been stagnant in the Republic of Korea. The low female employment rate in Korea also reflects the withdrawal of a majority of women at the time of marriage or childbirth, resulting in an M-shaped pattern. The discourse on social investment attracted much attention from the Kim Dae-Jung Government (1998-2003) and was more facilitated from the mid-2000s towards the later period of the Roh Moo-Hyun Government (2003-08). Against this background and along with a frantic focus on the low fertility rate from the mid-2000s, the government has expanded expenditure on family policy. In this article, we analyze social investment policies related to female employment and discuss their effect on promoting Korean women to work. We first closely examine the Korean female labour market in three aspects: precarious employment pattern; career breaks; and under-employment. Based on our policy analysis, we suggest that there is a mismatch in implemented policy and policy preference. Lastly, this article questions how effective social investment policies can be without a consideration of changes in job quality in the Korean female labour market.
2014	The Co-evolution of Technology and Institutions in the Catch-up Process: The Case of the Semiconductor Industry in Korea and TaiwanThis paper explores the industrial specialisation of latecomer countries, particularly Korea and Taiwan, which are often referred to as successful catch-up cases. The traditional wisdom is that the ‘developmental state’, resource leverage, and technological sophistication in an export-oriented strategy have been the factors for success. However, firm strategies and a supportive government are not sufficient to explain the different features of catch-up patterns. In this paper we propose that differences in industrial specialisation of catch-up countries are attributable to the interaction between technological characteristics and institutional settings, including corporate organisation, industrial structure, and the role of the public sector.
2014	A new approach to measuring green growth: Application to the OECD and KoreaGreen growth, or environmentally sustainable economic growth, is imperative in light of current environmental crises and resource depletion. Green indicators and statistics can measure environmentally sustainable development; they thus enable evaluating green growth and support its integration into policy. As such, this study uses an OECD framework to select a set of 12 indicators, designed for cross-country comparisons of green growth strategies. These indicators are assessed for 30 countries, including South Korea. Current data for each international indicator is compared to the 10th percentile of OECD countries and evaluated on a scale of 1-10. South Korea ranked 17th among the 30: its natural capital and quality of life indexes are relatively high, but its economic activity scores (production, consumption, and trade) are relatively low. These findings suggest that production and consumption processes must be made more environmentally and economically sustainable. Given that South Korea's green growth strategy currently emphasizes economic value, the country is moving in the right direction and our analysis projects that economic activity scores will rise in the future. This study offers a novel tool for measuring overall effects of green growth strategies, providing the information necessary to re-shape national economic plans based on current circumstances. ⓒ 2014.
2014	Work in the Shadow: Micro and Macro ResultsThe main focus of this paper is on the shadow economy labor force in OECD, developing and transition countries. As well as informal employment in the rural and non-rural sector, other measures of informal employment, such as the share of women and men, are also shown. The most influential factors on the shadow economy labor force are tax policies and state regulation, which, if they rise, increase shadow economy activities. Furthermore, the discussion of recent micro studies underlines that economic opportunities, the overall burden of the state (taxes and regulations), the general situation on the labor market, and unemployment are crucial for an understanding of the dynamics of the shadow labor force. ⓒ 2014 ⓒ 2014 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Do export promotion agencies increase exports?In this paper, we examine the role of export promotion agencies (EPAs) in promoting exports from Japan and Korea. Looking at two home countries enables us to tackle endogeneity issues by controlling for both country-pair time-invariant characteristics and importing-country time-varying characteristics. Our empirical results indicate that EPA has a positive and significant effect on exports even when we control for endogeneity. However, the size of the effect becomes substantially smaller, implying the importance of addressing endogeneity in accurately measuring the impact of EPA on exports. In addition, we find that EPA's (marginal) effects are larger in exporting to low-income trade partners than in exporting to high-income trade partners. ⓒ 2014 Institute of Developing Economies.
2014	How do capital structure policies of emerging markets differ from those of developed economies? Survey evidence from KoreaWe examine the capital structure policies of Korean firms using survey data for business group (chaebol) firms and independent firms. Our results are compared with findings in earlier studies for developed economies: Graham and Harvey (2001) for the United States and Brounen et al. (2004, 2006) for Europe. Korean chief financial officers are concerned about financial flexibility and volatility of earnings when issuing debt; they are concerned about target debt ratio maintenance and recent stock price increases when issuing equity. In contrast to independent firms, chaebol firms are more concerned about differences in corporate tax rates between foreign and domestic markets and the risk of refinancing in bad times. Chaebol firms are less likely to issue debt when faced with insufficient internal funds, which indicates that active internal capital markets are at work among the firms in a business group. Our results suggest that, compared to U. S. and European firms, Korean firms are under more pressure from their peers in formulating capital structure policies, consider equity a cheap source of financing, are less concerned with the dilution of earnings per share, and less frequently provide shares to employees as compensation. ⓒ 2014 M.E. Sharpe, Inc. All rights reserved.
2014	A political economy analysis of rules of origin requirements of Korea-US FTA with a new measure of the requirementsOur paper contributes to the literature on the rules of origin (ROO) requirements of regional trade agreements by developing a new measure of ROO requirements and by modifying and testing an existing political economy model of ROO requirements with the data of the Korea-United States Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA). In explaining the utilization rates of KORUS FTA, Bindingness Index, the new measure of ROO requirements taking the status quo local content of a product into consideration, performs better than the existing measure proposed by Estevadeordal (2000). To reflect that the US has agreed to immediate and complete liberalization on most products in KORUS FTA, we modify the political economy model of ROO requirements of Cadot et al. (2006) by assuming that the preferential tariff rates are zero. This modification leads to testable predictions, some of which differs from the prediction of Cadot et al. (2006), and our empirical analysis supports the predictions of our modified political economy model.
2014	Supply portfolio of bioethanol in the Republic of KoreaDespite the co-benefits of bioethanol, such as energy security, environmental improvement, CO2 emission reduction and development of associated industry, bioethanol-blended gasoline without subsidy is more expensive than pure gasoline in Korea. The renewable fuel standard (RFS) can contribute to the development of a bioethanol market. However, without controlling the portions of domestic bioethanol, it is highly plausible that a new bioethanol market will be filled with imported bioethanol. If the entire supply of bioethanol is imported, Korea can no longer expect those co-benefits. This study aims at simulating the desirable ratios of domestic versus imported bioethanol as well as domestic versus imported feedstock for producing bioethanol in Korea by combining the marginal social benefit (MSB) with the marginal social cost (MSC) for bioethanol supply. MSB is derived from a choice experiment and the MSC is derived from the differences in the bioethanol production costs and the petroleum price. The simulation results show that considerable portions of bioethanol should be produced domestically under the condition that MSB is equivalent to MSC in bioethanol production. Thus, the upcoming RFS policy should allow for some quota on behalf of domestic bioethanol with domestic feedstock or more credit should be given to the petroleum companies that use domestic bioethanol with domestic feedstock.
2014	Platform design and imitative innovation inside the transition black-box: Korean nuclear power plant APR1400 caseThis research focuses on a platform-design building momentum and an imitative innovation capability for the successful transition of a catch-up country into its post catch-up stage. Through the analysis of Korean nuclear power plant APR1400 development case with its specific process inside the transition black-box, APR1400 is proposed as a platform design with a common technological architecture that is indigenously established by Korea through a partial reconfiguration of the dominant design imported from leading countries. APR1400 has also been playing as a distinctive transition momentum for driving Korea into its post catch-up stage with various derivatives more concurrently, by providing Korea with the critically significant means of retrieving and reusing the existing knowledge rather diffusely accumulated during its catch-up stage into a more relevant one for transition. ⓒ 2014 ⓒ 2014 Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2014	Systemic innovation and outsourcing: The case of the mobile data services in KoreaThis paper investigates the decision that the mobile operators in Korea outsourced the development and manufacture of handsets which are co-specialized with their proprietary data service offerings. This choice of a contractual approach through the market is contradict to what the conventional literature argues. The paper explores the resolution of this contradiction and concludes that operators' contracts were facilitated by handset producers' willingness to supply co-specialized assets due to their new strategy and, more importantly, the greater power of operators relative to handset producers, which made it easier to push handset producers to develop the products to support the services. These two factors reduced the cost of contracting and limited the potential risk of opportunism. The manufacturers' new strategy to facilitate cooperation and the sources of unusual operators' power are also discussed. ⓒ 2014 ⓒ 2014 Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2014	Inflation Targeting and the Pass-through Rate in East Asian EconomiesThere has been serious debate regarding whether the inflation targeting (IT) framework for the emerging market economies has been an effective nominal anchor. Focusing on Korea, Thailand and the Philippines, this article aims to contribute to the debate by providing empirical evidence on a decline in the 'pass-through' effect with IT adoption. Our main findings are as follows. First, under the IT framework, Korea has followed an inflation responsive rule in a forward-looking manner, while Thailand has adopted the rule in a backward-looking manner. Second, only Korea experiences a reduction in the pass-through effect under IT adoption, thereby showing a linkage between the forward-looking inflation responsive rule and the pass-through effect. Finally, a test of the sensitivity of inflation expectations to external price shocks in Korea supports this linkage.ⓒ 2014 East Asian Economic Association and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2014	The infrastructure planning support system: Analyzing the impact of climate change on road infrastructure and developmentThis paper details the Infrastructure Planning Support System (IPSS), a software tool that incorporates five areas of analysis, including climate change, environment, and social impact, to provide a holistic, longer-term approach to the management and planning of road infrastructure. The system combines quantitative and qualitative analysis methods to develop an estimated fiscal cost, in addition to estimates of GHG emissions, transportation time and cost savings, and a prioritization metric focusing on social impact of road construction.The IPSS system has been applied in several case studies, including South Africa, Mozambique, Vietnam, a pan-African analysis, and several Asian countries including China, South Korea, Mongolia, and Japan. This paper serves as the first comprehensive explanation of the IPSS system, including the literature review, background, and methodology. The results section focuses on the costs of climate change in an illustrative case study of the State of Colorado in the United States, due to specific data and outputs required for the other analysis components. This paper focuses on the need for a holistic systems approach, its relevance to transportation planning and investment, and one example of how climate change considerations can be quantified and applied at the policy level. ⓒ 2014 Elsevier Ltd.
2014	Trade Effects of Regional Integration in Imperfect Competition: Evidence from the Greater Arab Free Trade Area (GAFTA)This article aims to provide new insights into trade effects of the Greater Arab Free Trade Area (GAFTA), using an imperfect competition framework. The model combines the new gravity model approach with supply-demand export equations in imperfect competition. In this regard, the role of scale economies, product varieties and expectations is explored. Facing the lack of international data on scale economies, we also develop a translog production system which makes it possible to obtain reliable estimates of this factor. For a more rigorous treatment of the endogeneity problem in the model, we make use of an instrumental GMM panel estimator. Results show limited effects of GAFTA on regional trade in imperfect competition, due to market segmentation and the predominance of inter-industry trade. In addition, the fitted intra-GAFTA trade values are far beyond the actual ones. This suggests that GAFTA countries could benefit from deeper regional trade integration. In this regard, the Arab Spring creates new opportunities to reinforce trade integration as a means of grasping additional trade gains in this area. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	International Service Transactions: Is Time a Trade Barrier in a Connected World?Firms' international fragmentation of production has recently widened its focus from outsourcing of intermediates to off-shoring of business services such as software program development and international call center networks. Although many services are intangible and non-storable, gravity model estimates show that geographical distance between business partners matters less for commercial service transactions. Rather, time zones can be a driving force of international service trade by allowing for continuous operation over a 24 hours business day (continuity effect) when a proper division of labor is feasible and countries are connected to electronic communications infrastructure (ICT). But even when ICT provides alternatives for face-to-face interaction, time zones can act as a barrier when coordination problems with sleeping business partners occur (synchronization effect). In this paper, we find empirical evidence for the continuity effect in trade of business services, which is robust to measurement and sample size. Even more important is that the effect of time zones on service trade depends on access to ICT. An improvement of ICT infrastructure will affect business service trade at long time zone distances significantly more than trade at short time zone distances. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Strategic Product R&amp;D Investment Policy under International Rivalry in the Presence of Demand Spillover EffectsWe develop a model of product (i.e., quality-improving) research and development  investment competition in a horizontally differentiated duopoly. In particular, based on a third-country market model, we consider the optimal product R&D investment policy under international rivalry in the presence of demand spillover effects associated with improving the quality level of a product. We show how the optimality of a non-cooperative and a cooperative R&D investment policy depends on the strength of demand spillover effects. Furthermore, we consider the same issues in the case of heterogeneous consumers and alternative utility functions. ⓒ 2014 ⓒ 2014 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Effects of monetary policy shocks on the exchange rate in the republic of Korea: Capital flows in stock and bond marketsSeveral studies have suggested that the prediction of standard theory on the effects ofmonetary policy on the exchange rate might not be applicable to or in the case of the Republic of Korea because participation of foreign investors is weak in the bond market but strong in the stock market. The current study examines the effects of monetary policy shocks on the exchange rate in the Republic of Korea by using structural vector autoregression models with sign restrictions. To determine the channels by which monetary policy shocks affect the exchange rate, I investigate the effects on various components of capital flows. The main empirical findings are as follows. First, a contractionary monetary policy shock, which increases the interest rate, appreciates the Korean won significantly in the short run as predicted by most theories. Second, contractionary monetary policy shocks increase capital inflows into the bond market consistent with the prediction of the uncovered interest parity condition. This seems to be the main channel by which contractionary monetary shocks appreciate the won. Finally, foreign investors tend to withdraw money from the domestic stock market in response to a monetary tightening, resulting in a decrease in capital inflows. ⓒ 2014 Asian Development Bank and Asian Development Bank Institute.
2014	From miracle to crisis and back: The political economy of south Korean long-term developmentThis article analyses the process of economic development and associated political transformations in South Korea since the mid-1960s. It claims that, as in the rest of East Asia, capital accumulation in South Korea has revolved around the production of specific industrial goods for world markets using the relatively cheap and highly disciplined local workforce for simplified labour processes, as appendages of the machine or in manual assembly operations. This modality of accumulation resulted from changes in the forms of production of relative surplus value on a global scale through the development of computerisation and robotisation, and the concomitant transformation in the productive attributes of the collective worker of large-scale industry. The article identifies the main characteristics of the political and economic relations through which the structural transformation of the Korean society came about throughout the period studied, as a form of realising the global unity of the process of capitalist development. This analysis not only supports the claims made about the specific characteristics of the East Asian processes of capitalist development. It also shows the intrinsic unity of seemingly diverse political-economy processes, as forms of realisation of the transformations of Korean society.
2014	Neoliberalism and Growth without Development in Ghana: A Case for State-led IndustrializationGhana witnessed decent economic growth in the last three decades of implementing neoliberal policy prescriptions. Indeed, this growth promoted it to a low middle income country in 2010. Paradoxically, the wellbeing of most Ghanaians in the subaltern classes has not improved significantly, and they still suffer grinding poverty. How to understand this paradox of growth without development? This paper argues that the failure of Ghana to diversify its economy into industrialization, particularly manufacturing, explains the paradox. With its relatively good politics and open economy, the Ghanaian state should spearhead industrialization, as South Korea and Malaysia did, by supporting selective manufacturing firms with capital, technology, and protective tariffs. ⓒ The Author(s) 2013.
2014	Governing the market in a globalizing era: Developmental states, global production networks and inter-firm dynamics in East AsiaThis paper focuses on the changing governance of economic development in a globalizing era in relation to the dynamics of global value chains and global production networks. Based on recent development in such East Asian economies as South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore, I examine how, since the 1990s, the embedded relation between one variant of state institutions, known as the developmental state, and national firms, well integrated into global chains and networks spanning different territories and regions, has evolved. Because of the deepening strategic coupling of these national firms with lead firms in global industries, the developmental state's attempt to govern the market and to steer industrial transformation through direct policy interventions has become increasingly difficult and problematic. Through this process of strategic coupling, national firms have been gradually disembedded from state apparatuses and re-embedded in different global production networks that are governed by competitive inter-firm dynamics. While the state in these East Asian economies has actively repositioned its role in this changing governance, it can no longer be conceived as the dominant actor in steering domestic firms and industrial transformation. The developmental trajectory of these national economies becomes equally, if not more, dependent on the successful articulation of their domestic firms in global production networks spearheaded by lead firms. In short, inter-firm dynamics in global production networks tend to trump state-led initiatives as one of the most critical conditions for economic development. This paper theorizes further this significant role of global value chains and global production networks in the changing international political economy of development. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Taylor & Francis.
2014	The role of the state as an inter-scalar mediator in globalizing liquid crystal display industry development in South KoreaDeriving insights from the global production network (GPN) framework, we examine the recent development of the liquid crystal display (LCD) industry in South Korea. Using the GPN framework, we focus on the role of the national state as an active inter-scalar mediator in the dynamic strategic coupling process between global leading firms and local actors in globalizing regional development. We argue that the role of the national state as an inter-scalar mediator was crucial in coordinating localized growth factors with globalizing external factors to create and develop the LCD industry. This was achievable because of the legacy of the developmental state and the top-down implementation of policy in South Korea. Using the idea of the inter-scalar mediator, we specify the role of the state as a container of laws and practices and as a constructor of regional innovation systems to globalize regional development in the context of a centripetal society. A multi-strategy approach, which included one month of participatory observation, in-depth interviews and secondary data collection, was adopted in order to enhance the validity and reliability of the data. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Taylor and Francis.
2014	The Choice of Exchange-rate Regime in the Framework of New Open Economy MacroeconomicsThis paper extends the model setup of Devereux and Engel (1998) to investigate how consumption home bias, capital mobility, and price-setting behavior affect the consumption volatility, expected level of consumption, and the welfare performance under alternative exchange rate regimes for a country facing foreign monetary shock. The paper then discusses the issue of the choice of exchange rate regime. According to the analysis of theoretical derivation and simulation, the following conclusions are made. First, the variance of domestic consumption is lowest under a floating exchange rate with pricing-to-market (PTM model for short), and the variance of consumption under floating exchange rate with producer-currency pricing (the PCP model for short) depends on the degree of capital mobility, the share of tradable goods, and the degree of home bias. Secondly, the fixed exchange rate (FER) will dominate the floating exchange rate in terms of the expected level of consumption. Thirdly, from the perspective of welfare performance, a floating exchange rate with pricing-to-market (PTM model) is preferable to a fixed exchange rate. A fixed exchange rate dominates a floating exchange rate with producer-currency pricing (PCP model), and the lower degree of capital mobility induces a higher welfare under fixed exchange rate but a lower welfare under PTM and PCP models. ⓒ 2014 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Resource Curse: New Evidence on the Role of InstitutionsThis paper attempts to provide a probable answer to a longstanding resource curse puzzle; i.e., why resource-rich nations grow at a slower rate compared with less fortunate ones. Using an innovative threshold estimation technique, the empirical results reveal that there is a threshold effect in the natural resources-economic growth relationship. We find that the impact of natural resources is meaningful to economic growth only after a certain threshold point of institutional quality has been attained. The results also shed light on the fact that the nations that have low institutional quality depend heavily on natural resources while countries with high quality institutions are relatively less dependent on natural resources to generate growth. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Intellectual Property Rights and Growth: Is there a Threshold Effect?Recent WTO agreements have forced developing countries to adopt stronger intellectual property rights (IPRs). However, theoretical research is critical at best, but largely undecided, on the impact of stronger IPRs on economies at lower stages of development. This paper is particularly concerned with a critical empirical examination of the impact of human capital on the relationship between IPRs and economic growth. Using a threshold estimation technique, originally developed by Hansen, the paper discovers a threshold level of human capital (robust to many different variations) such that for countries whose human capital is below this level, tighter intellectual property rights have a negative impact on economic growth, while for countries with human capital above this level, tighter intellectual property rights are unrelated to economic growth. Thus, we find a non-linear relationship associated with this switching regression. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2014	Household indebtedness in Korea: Its causes and sustainabilityThis paper investigates why household debt in Korea has increased so rapidly over the past decade and whether it is sustainable, adopting a multi-faceted approach which includes a time series analysis, a quantitative analysis based on household panel data, and an analysis using a debt dynamics equation derived from the household budget constraint. A regression analysis reveals that household debt growth has been significantly related to house price increases, banks' lax attitudes toward household lending, and financial institutions' favorable funding conditions. Also 70-80% of the total debt increase has been accounted for by high income or newly indebted households. The debt dynamics equation analysis shows that the rapid rise in the ratio of household debt to disposable income is attributable not only to the increase in household asset purchases but also to the dampened growth in disposable income and the reduced savings rate. The sustainability analyses indicate that Korean households' debt sustainability is unlikely to deteriorate sharply within a short period of time unless two extreme scenarios, under which house prices decline by 5% a year over the next five years, or a significantly large macroeconomic shock similar to the 1997 crisis hits the economy, would be realized. ⓒ 2014 Elsevier B.V.
2014	Measuring environmental performance with stochastic environmental DEA: The case of APEC economiesData envelopment analysis (DEA) has been widely used for environmental performance measurement at different levels. Most of environmental DEA models take the deterministic form without considering random factors. This paper presents a stochastic environmental DEA model that can measure environmental performance under random conditions. The proposed model has been applied to evaluate the environmental performance of Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) economies in 2010. The results indicate that the stochastic pure environmental performance of APEC economies is indeed affected by random factors. Especially, the fluctuation of Republic of Korea's stochastic pure environmental performance is most obvious among all the APEC economies. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2014	Analysis of reasons and countermeasures for the necessity of alternative futures discourses in South KoreaThis paper examines an overview of the Western origins and concepts of alternative futures to address the 'alternatives to what' question, and to define three approaches to clarify the concept of alternative futures. An integrated approach, as a holistic means, should be considered as incorporating both the formal approach and the content-based approach. Moreover, this paper presents the necessary reasons for alternative futures discourses in Korea and proposes several countermeasures to improve Korea's futures practice. To date the Korean society and its futures practices have been dominated by five tendencies: (a) a dominant modernization paradigm, (b) a prevailing unipolar worldview, (c) an uncertainty avoidant culture, (d) poor methodological practice, and (e) Westernization of the Korean futures studies. These current tendencies and their ensuing negative effects have undermined both the continuation of creative futures and the Korean way of seeing the future. Thus, Korea's futures practice has experienced a lack of alternative futures approaches as well as a kind of identity crisis. In order to respond to those problems and create rigorous products of future practice, it is crucial for Korea's futures community to concentrate on the five alternative tendencies: (a) inventing Korean models in a viable utopia, (b) adopting a liberal cosmopolitan worldview, (c) building an uncertainty tolerant culture, (d) overcoming methodological challenges and (e) moving toward indigenous futures studies. In particular, indigenous futures studies can provide the grounds for relevant and enriched futures studies as well as the development of universal futures studies. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
2014	How should we bank with foreigners? An empirical assessment of lending behavior of international banks to six East Asian economiesWe construct macro-and micro-panel data on international bank lending to six Asian economies-Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand-over the period 2000 to 2010 to analyze a number of objectives. The paper first examines the critical determinants not only to overall international bank lending but also to cross-border bank lending, and find that cross-border lending by international banks tend to pull out from host economies during difficult times in source economies, whereas such retrenchments are not evident on the basis of overall lending. The paper next examines the differences between subsidiaries and branches of international banks in their ability to shield themselves from the financial difficulties of their global parent banks and thus their ability to continue lending in destination markets. The results show that foreign bank subsidiaries are more capable in this regard. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier Inc.
2013	Identification of Systemically Important Financial Institutions and Implications for Financial Architecture in KoreaThe global financial crisis has put a spotlight on concerns about financial system stability. Currently, there are discussions about how to identify systemically important financial institutions (SIFIs) and how to strengthen regulatory measures for these SIFIs. Against the backdrop, this study aims to identify SIFIs by measuring inter-sectoral financial transactions with the flow of funds (FOF) account as a measure of interconnectedness. The empirical results show that banks or insurance companies can be SIFIs only in terms of size. However, foreign banks' branches (FBB) and credit-specialized institutions can also be SIFIs in terms of interconnectedness. Especially the systemic importance of FBB in Korea has increased considering the fact that financial crisis in Korea resulted mainly from foreign exchange market. Therefore, more specific discussions and regulatory measures for SIFIs will be required from the perspective of capital market development and Korea's situation. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2013	Influence of the Banks' Money Mediation Behavior on the Monetary Policy: A Study of Korean CaseThis paper analyses how financial institutions' arbitrary intermediation behaviors, including adjustments in bank lending and deposit rates, influence monetary policy transmission channels. For the analysis, we develop a New Keynesian Dynamic Stochastic General Equilibrium (NK DSGE) model with parameters estimated to fit the Korean conditions. The role of banks is subsequently examined by classifying monetary policy transmission channels (real rate channel, nominal debt channel, financial accelerating channel, and banking attenuator channel). A notable part of this analysis is the inclusion of the banking sector in the model specifically with the intent to study transmissions from the financial sector to the real economy. This paper follows this line of inquiry with recent research in mind. Empirical analysis verifies the existence of the banking attenuator effect in Korea, which means banks act to reduce the effect of monetary policies. This indicates that if financial intermediaries strengthen arbitrary adjustment behaviors of lending and deposit rates, the effect of the monetary policy intended to relieve volatility in the business cycle may not be as high as expected. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2013	How culture and government shape entrepreneurial innovation: the case of Korean and UK online gaming firmsThis paper examines institutional sources of product innovation with reference to the online gaming sector of Korea and the UK. It examines the combined impact of formal and informal institutions and their interaction with multiple case studies. Despite the growing importance of innovative products in contemporary entertainment (including interactive games), the 'informal' source of innovation has attracted limited attention. By closely looking at the idea exploration, generation and selection process (where creativity plays a major role), we intend to find out how values and public policy affect product innovation. This study shows that the value of Korean and UK online gaming firms (regardless of their different socio-economic contexts) plays an important role in generating product innovation. An additional point is that Korean firms are likely to take advantage of government policy support to overcome inadequate institutional settings in conjunction with the initial conditions of online game development. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2013	Dynamic capabilities and new product development performance: Korean SMEsThis study analyses the dynamic capabilities and new product development performance for high-tech small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Korea. This study reveals the resources and activities that underlie dynamic capabilities. We apply the concept of dynamic capabilities (sensing, seizing and managing threats/transforming capabilities) based primarily on the model of Teece. Based upon a literature review, resources and activities (such as organizational slack, knowledge reconstruction, and exploration) were identified as contributing to reinforce the dynamic capabilities of firms. Data were obtained from survey results collected from 241 Korean SMEs. Empirical results show that knowledge reconstruction activities that discard existing and established technological assets influence dynamic capabilities; however, organizational slack exhibits no significant relationship with dynamic capabilities. Exploration activities such as building network, exploration of external information, and academic activities show a negative influence on dynamic capabilities. Sensing capability, opportunity seizing capability and transforming capability that underlie dynamic capabilities show a positive effect on new product development performance on a collective and aggregate level versus an individual basis. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2013	Impact of the Global Financial Crisis on the Degree of Financial Integration among East Asian CountriesThis paper aims to gauge the impact of the global financial crisis on bilateral holdings of financial assets among East Asian countries. For this purpose, this paper uses the International Monetary Fund's Coordinated Portfolio Investment Survey (CPIS) data. We first present information about financial linkages between the CPIS-participating eight East Asian economies and other East Asian economies before and after the global financial crisis of 2008. We then apply the gravity model to assess the determinants of the cross-border holdings of foreign securities for four major East Asian financial investors - Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Singapore. We find only few changes in the bilateral holdings of financial assets among East Asian countries in the post-crisis period. In particular, our evidence does not indicate that intra-Asian financial integration has increased noticeably since the global crisis. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2013	Emerging Asia Equity Home Bias and Financial IntegrationEquity home bias remains a phenomenon and a puzzle. Recent studies show the importance of financial integration in explaining the observed decline of equity home bias in advanced economies. This paper takes a step in understanding this relationship in the context of Emerging Asia. Stock market ratios and the mean-variance approach are used to construct measures of equity home bias; while foreign direct investments and time-varying global betas are used to derive measures of financial integration. These measures provide evidence that equity home bias has declined in recent years and progress has been made toward greater financial integration in the region. Fixed-effects panel regression was used to determine whether the factors that contribute to the decline of the bias in advanced economies - including financial integration - are relevant for Emerging Asia. Results show that a higher initial level of equity home bias and a greater financial integration lower the bias; while a larger stock market raises it. These findings concur with those for advanced economies. As in advanced economies, better quality of institutions and larger bank assets generally lower equity home bias, although insignificantly. However, unlike in advanced economies, country-specific risks are important in explaining the decline of the bias in Emerging Asia. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2013	The Impact of ICT on East Asian Economic Growth: Panel Estimation ApproachThis paper tests the impact of information and communications technology (ICT) on economic growth for ASEAN5+3 countries consisting of Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore, Indonesia, Philippines, Japan, Korea and China using panel data set from 1975 to 2006. In this paper, we investigate the impact of ICT on economic growth (GDP) based on standard production function consisting of capital (CAP) and labour (LAB) (number of employment as proxy of human capital), as independent variables. Telecommunications investment (TELINT) is used as a proxy to gauge the contribution of ICT as new independent variable to output growth in ASEAN5+3 countries. The study divided the ASEAN5+3 countries into two groups: ASEAN5 and ASEAN5+3 countries. We employ panel data set using various test such as panel unit root test, panel cointegration, Hausman test and generalised least squares method in order to detect the relationship between the dependent variable (GDP) and independent variables (CAP, LAB and TELINT) for ASEAN5+3 countries. The existence of long-run relationship between GDP and factor of production (capital, labour and telecommunications investment) is proven from the panel cointegration test for ASEAN5. Based on fixed effect for model 1 (ASEAN5) and random effect for model 2 (ASEAN5+3), the paper found out that labour, capital and telecommunications investment have positive relationship towards GDP. Thus, the study concludes that ICT has played an important role as engine of growth for sustainable development in ASEAN5 and ASEAN5+3 countries. In this context, ASEAN leader should take this opportunity from the formation of ASEAN5+3 to widen their cooperation with China, Japan and Korea throughout knowledge sharing especially in the area of ICT. ⓒ 2012 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.
2013	Growth and technological progress in selected Pacific countriesThis paper studies the sources of technological progress that determined output and labor productivity growth across a group of leading Pacific economies - Australia, Japan, South Korea, and the U.S. - in the period 1980-2006. We consider three alternative sources of technological progress: disembodied and factor-embodied technical change both to capital and labor. The contribution to growth of each of these sources is evaluated using both traditional and equilibrium growth accounting techniques. We find that capital accumulation is the main determinant of GDP growth in Australia, Japan and the U.S., whereas the main contribution in South Korea is given by Total Factor Productivity (neutral technology). In general, about a half of the contribution to growth of capital-embodied technical change comes from Information and Communication Technology in all the considered economies. We conclude that the higher growth of South Korea, due to Total Factor Productivity change, can be explained by changes in the intensity in the capital/labor use. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Assessing the look east policy: Moving beyond work culture and ethicThe Look East Policy (LEP) was introduced in 1981 after former Prime Minister Mahathir's East and West competing perspectives contributed to a nationalist enthusiasm to turn Malaysia into a new industrialized country using Japan and Korea as models. This paper reassesses LEP within the framework of policy evaluation and addresses its long-term impact, with a few twists. For the purpose of this article, only Japan will be discussed as a model for LEP. This article argues that LEP has contributed to Malaysia's progress in becoming an industrialized country. This research applies assessment indicators such as input, output, processes, performance, and cost considerations to evaluate the achievements made by LEP in terms of work culture, ethics, investments, and human capital development. Intensive interviews were conducted with 30 respondents from various organizations with similar profiles, each contributing experience such as studying, living, working, co-operating and collaborating with Japanese counterparts. Themes were developed based on sequential questions occurring in the narrative interviews' transcriptions. This study shares respondents' voices and it reports them as they are. The findings show that LEP produced both advantages and disadvantages, but the former seem to blend in better in organizations, individuals' lives, and an incremental effort to establish a strong industrialized state.
2013	Financial deepening and business cycle volatility in KoreaThis article investigates the role of financial market development on business cycle volatility in the economy of Korea, using time-series data for the period 1967 to 2010. The financial market development and business cycle volatility are measured by three different variables of financial deepening and a moving-average SD of real GDP, respectively. We construct a long-run causality index, as suggested by Granger and Lin (1995), in the context of cointegrated systems and vector error correction model. The estimates indicate that the measures of financial deepening, related to the role of financial institutions, mitigate cyclical fluctuations in the long run, whereas the reverse impacts are rarely evidenced. However, 'the ratio of M2 to nominal GDP' as a measure of financial deepening has an intensifying effect on business cycle. Based on the findings, we can infer that financial market reforms will not decrease business cycle volatility quickly. ⓒ 2013 Taylor & Francis.
2013	Abenomics' trade spilloverThere is no escaping Japan's competition in the world markets for goods, particularly in the automotive and electronics industries. Countries exporting to these markets are bound to feel the competitive pressure from a marked fall in the value of the yen. However, while some exporters will be hurt by a cheaper yen, others will benefit from lower input costs, to the extent that they source parts and components from Japan for processing, assembly, and reexport. This paper formalizes these intuitions and tests them against a data set covering more than 90% of world trade at the product level, between 2000 and 2011. Panel regression analysis shows that for countries and products facing Japan's strongest competition, a 10% appreciation of the yen lowers average exports by more than 3%, which is a sizeable pass through. Elsewhere, the impact is negligible, particularly when vertical trade is accounted for. ⓒ 2013 by Asian Development Bank.
2013	The Influence of Migration on Human Capital DevelopmentThis paper develops a general equilibrium overlapping generation model of migrant and domestic households that reside in one of two countries, one rich and one poor. The model is used to analyze the impact of migration on human capital development. The model shows that migration, with remittances to non-migrant poor households, has a positive impact on non-migrant households' human capital accumulation ('brain gain'). The model shows that migration (or the option of) induces human capital investment. However, it is shown that remittances have a negative impact on the growth that migrant households enjoy in the rich country. In addition, strong links to source country reduce the educational attainment of second-generation migrant households. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Stabilization Effects of Narrative-based Monetary Policy in JamaicaThe study constructs a monetary policy indicator (MPI) from monetary policy documents and the actions of the Bank of Jamaica and Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, and uses it to estimate four variants of an analytical narrative-vector error correction model (AN-VECM) with cointegration as the identifying restriction. In AN-VECMs 1 and 2, the cointegration is estimated in level form with respective short-term interest rate and the MPI as regressands. The first difference forms of respective models are re-estimated in AN-VECMs 3 and 4. The results are mixed, with AN-VECM 1 yielding the least results. However, in all cases, the impulse response functions indicate that the MPI yields slightly superior results in both AN-VECMs 2 and 4. A positive shock in the MPI produces price and exchange rate results which are consistent with a priori expectations from economic theory, and mixed liquidity effect and real output results. Thus, the MPI provides an important policy tool alternative for policymakers in small open economies to consider in the implementation of monetary policy. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	North-South Trade-related Technology Diffusion and Productivity Growth: Are Small States Different?The economies of small developing states tend to be more fragile than those in large ones. This paper examines this issue in a dynamic context by focusing on the impact of education and North-South trade-related technology diffusion (NRD) on TFP growth in small and large states in the South. The main findings are: (i) TFP growth increases with NRD, education and the interaction between the two; (ii) the impact of NRD, education and their interaction on TFP growth in small states is over three times that for large countries; and (iii) the greater TFP growth loss in small states has two brain-drain related causes: a substantially greater sensitivity of TFP growth to the brain drain, and brain drain levels that are much higher in small than in large states. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Bretton Woods II and the East Asian Emerging Economies: Lazarus, Phoenix, or Humpty Dumpty?Several studies have commented on the emergence of a new international monetary system in the post-Asian crisis years. The recent international financial crisis has, however, put Bretton Woods II (or BW II) under considerable strain. This paper analyzes the sustainability of the pre-crisis order from an East Asian emerging country perspective. A simple framework incorporating real and financial sectors is constructed in order to explore possible consequences of the shocks and policy choices that these economies currently face. Stock and flow implications are analyzed. Assuming that recent events would have reinforced monetary authorities' desire to maintain an adequate cushion of reserves while preventing exchange rate volatility, we find that low international interest rates enhance the stability of such a regime. Politico-economic factors, however, render some policies more sustainable than others, increasing the likelihood of a modified BW II regime with reserve accumulation financed to a greater degree by capital account rather than current account surpluses. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	On Money and Output in the Euro Area: Is Money Redundant?This paper examines the relationship between money and future movements in output at business-cycle frequencies in the euro area. Importantly, the evidence suggests that the money stock is found to significantly affect output independent of the real interest rate. This finding supports the argument made by Meltzer (2001) that the effects of monetary policy actions on the real economy are not fully captured by the short-term real rate. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Firm's Choice between Export and R&amp;D and its Effect on the Firm's Productivity and SurvivalThis paper examines the nature and process of technology upgrade among firms in South Korea and the underlying productivity dynamics by using micro panel data. In this paper, we see important aspects of the firm's behaviour on improving its productivity through internal and external knowledge creation activities represented by research and development  and export, respectively. Our results indicate that the level of a firm's productivity plays an important role in determining its decision on R&D investment and export. In addition, a firm's experiences involved exporting and/or investment in R&D increase the probability of its current decision on export and/or R&D investment. Firms that either export or invest in R&D show significantly high productivity level than other firms that do not involve in any of two activities. Furthermore, firms that export and invest in R&D simultaneously are more likely to have higher productivity than firms that only participate in one of two activities. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis of compounding effects of two types of knowledge creations, R&D and export. ⓒ 2013 ⓒ 2013 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2013	Structural change in an open economyWe study the importance of international trade in structural change. Our framework has both productivity and trade cost shocks, and allows for non-unitary income and substitution elasticities. We calibrate our model to investigate South Korea's structural change between 1971 and 2005. We find that the shock processes, propagated through the model's two main transmission mechanisms, non-homothetic preferences and the open economy, explain virtually all of the evolution of agriculture and services labor shares, and the rising part of the hump-shape in manufacturing. Counterfactual exercises show that the role of the open economy is quantitatively important for explaining South Korea's structural change. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Evaluation of board reforms: An examination of the appointment of outside directorsExisting literature on the evaluation of the economic consequences of board reforms has some limitations including: their estimation results fail to show the causal effects of the regulatory reforms; they have limited policy implications for an economy where family businesses are dominant; and there is a lack of consensus on the impacts of the reforms. Usinga unique dataset and program evaluation methodologies, this paper investigated the performance of share prices in response to the newly introduced outside director system in Korea, where family businesses have been dominant. First, we find that the positive impact of the appointment of outside directors on returns is observed only when the proportion of outsiders on a board increases significantly and their appointment is accompanied by the lead-and-lag effect of regulatory reforms. Second, the buy-and-hold abnormal return is more evident for independent firms than for chaebol affiliates, due partly to the high monitoring costs for cross-shareholdings among affiliates. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier Inc.
2013	Alternative future scenarios for south korea in 2030This paper discusses South Korea's five alternative future scenarios in 2030 to increase our understanding of its long-term future by exploring the key question of 'what will South Korea look like in the year 2030' in terms of society, economy, politics, class, and other pertinent issues. Following Jim Dator's alternative futures method, the five alternative future scenarios include four alternative scenario archetypes (growth, discipline, collapse, and transformation) and one preferred future scenario. After reviewing South Korea's history and current situation as well as the existing forecasts of the possible futures, we address the uncertainty about the future in the five alternative scenarios: (a) the Republic of Samsung scenario, (b) the great Han River flood in a warmer South Korea scenario, (c) the big global family phenomenon scenario, (d) the Age of Biotechnology scenario, (e) peaceful unification as a dream come true scenario. The purpose of this paper is to contribute to the enhancement of the vivid narratives and imagination characterizing each scenario to provide dramatic insights regarding the emotional and symbolic meanings, and to envision Korea's preferred future that will transform Korea into a better society. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
2013	Empirical determinants and patterns of research and development investment in AsiaThis paper investigates the financial determinants of research and development  investment in Asia, where innovation is naturally seen as the key driver of future (high) economic growth. We sample listed nonfinancial firms from eight economies in region (the People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; the Republic of Korea; Malaysia; the Philippines; and Singapore) for the period 2002-2011 using the Oriana database. Panel data regressions show sensitivity of R&D investment to changes in cash flow, indicating reliance on internal financing of R&D and financially constrained firms, and a greater role of debt, rather than equity, as a source of external financing. In terms of alternative uses of funds, dividend payments by firms seem to divert from their spending on R&D, but investments in financial assets do not. In terms of ownership structure, empirical results show that both higher domestic ownership concentration and higher foreign ownership tend to lower cash flow sensitivity of R&D investment, suggesting more stable funding of innovation. Overall, there does not seem to be an extreme preference of firm shareholders for short-term returns at the expense of long-term productivity. However, there is clearly a gain for firms as well as economies they are in with better access to external financing of R&D. ⓒ 2013 by Asian Development Bank.
2013	Bank performance and its determinants in KoreaIn this study we develop a measure of bank performance based on the Malmquist index approach. This measure supplements existing financial ratios such as ROA and ROE by addressing some of limitations of these ratios. In our empirical investigation building upon the Malmquist index measure as well as the profitability ratios, we never find convincing evidence of economies of scale present in the Korean banking sector. It also appears that a certain type of ownership such as foreign international banks has the potential to significantly improve bank performance while the management control of government or foreign buyout funds has mainly unfavorable effects on bank performance. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Busan and beyond: South Korea and the transition from aid effectiveness to development effectivenessThe fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness (HLF-4), held in Busan, South Korea drew the largest number as well as the most diverse group of participants ever. This paper examines the shift towards a new global development cooperation paradigm at the Busan HLF-4; the new global partnership that emerged from Busan; and what South Korea brought to the global discourse on development cooperation as an emerging donor. Although it is premature to argue that a new paradigm was established at Busan, there was a clear political momentum for a shift from aid effectiveness to development effectiveness, a change that was advocated and promoted particularly by new actors such as South Korea. The Busan HLF-4 and the post-Busan process have highlighted the global role of new actors, with South Korea exemplifying through its own experience how aid can help bring about development, contributing to the global discourse on development cooperation and playing a bridging role between traditional and emerging donors. The changing dynamics of the world including the global financial crisis and climate change suggest that the global challenges are different from what had been expected when the HLF process and Millennium Development Goals were begun in the beginning of the 20th century. Thus, we recommend that global development cooperation discourse and activities that had been led by traditional Western donors need to find more effective ways of incorporating new actors and different modalities of development cooperation because the global challenges we face are grave. New development partners can bring to the table lessons, energies and capacities deriving from their own dramatic success in alleviating poverty and attaining development and their visibility as global development actors. ⓒ 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2013	Euler Equation Approach for Emerging-market Macro ModelsThis paper focuses on how to obtain numerical solutions to emerging-market DSGE models with occasionally binding constraints by using the Euler equation, rather than using value functions of households. The main point is that the Euler-equation approach works in a fast and simple way for a variety of recent emerging-market macro models. An important reason behind this point is that it is relatively easy to pin down the functional form of aggregate equilibrium conditions in these models. The time-iteration method is applied to Euler equations of a small open-economy with overborrowings. It is discussed how to use the Euler equation approach to recent models of sovereign debt and to show that the presence of the Laffer-curve of debt-revenues leads us to use the piecewise parameterized-expectations approach. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Recent Issues in Emerging-economies MacroeconomicsIn this paper, we summarize the recent advancement of emerging-economies macroeconomics. We begin with stylized facts and models of real business-cycles (RBCs) for emerging-market countries and then move onto the discussion of various issues associated with overborrowings and sovereign debts. The common feature of these models is that their analysis is mainly focused on the framework of RBC models for small open economies combined with financial frictions. We also discuss nominal features of emerging economies that are associated with the behavior of nominal exchange rate and foreign reserves observed during the recent global financial crisis, as well as the practice and impact of conventional and unconventional monetary policy measures. We also present some extensions of existing emerging-economies models that allow for the significant role of conventional monetary and fiscal policies. Our results can be summarized as follows. First, the canonical specification of recent models with pecuniary externalities is modified to allow for channels through which conventional monetary and fiscal policies can affect the degree of pecuniary externalities. Second, we attempt to explain the behavior of nominal exchange rate 'going up elevators and coming down stairs' shown in emerging economies during periods of zero lower bounds on the short-term nominal interest rate. Third, we modify a prototypical model of sovereign debt to show the negative correlation between the maturity of foreign debt and the accumulation of foreign reserves when the level of foreign debt is substantially high. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Business Cycles in an Emerging Economy with Financial Frictions: The Case of KoreaThis paper investigates sources of business cycles in Korea to shed some lights on the effects of economic crisis and the role of financial frictions. For this purpose, it sets up a canonical international real business cycle model augmented by international financial market frictions as in Garcia-Cicco, Pancrazi, and Uribe (2010). The paper applies Watson's (1993) measure of fit to evaluate the role of financial market frictions over Korean business cycles. It finds that the financial frictions have played a limited role in the economic fluctuations in Korea before and after the 1997 financial crisis. ⓒ 2013 Korea International Economic Association.
2013	The role of competition law: An Asian perspectiveIn EU and the US, competition law regulates the practices of large firms so as to protect consumer welfare and economic efficiency. In Asia, many countries such as China and Vietnam are shifting to market economy; small firms expand and grow to become large scale corporations. Competition law is gaining importance in these countries. This paper firstly provides an overview on the role of the competition law in protecting consumer efficiency and consumer welfare. Afterwards, content analysis on the previous journal articles about Asia's countries competition law, such as China, Vietnam, South Korea, Japan, India will be conducted. Lastly, a case study on supermarket in Hong Kong shows the role of competition law.
2013	Perceptions of the ethicality of favors at work in Asia: An 11-society assessmentWe explore macro-level factors that shape perceptions of the ethicality of favors in Asian workplaces using the subordinate influence ethics (SIE) measure. We also expand and use the crossvergence model to examine the cross-level relationship between socio-cultural (i. e., traditional/secular; survival/self-expression; in-group favoritism) and business ideology influences (i. e., human development level, control of corruption) on perceptions of favor-seeking at work. This study examines the perceptions of a total of 4,325 managers and professionals in a diverse set of 11 Asian societies: China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. Our investigation focuses on both the "softer" (image management) and "harder" (self-serving) sides of subordinate influence attempts to seek favors, as well as the degree of ethical differentiation across these societies. Key results based on hierarchical linear modeling (HLM) suggest that both the World Value Survey's socio-cultural values as well as in-group favoritism contribute to our understanding of influence behaviors in Asia. Likewise, level of human development and control of corruption also appear to be promising predictors of influence ethics. In sum, our results suggest that widening the scope of the crossvergence conceptualization of socio-cultural and business ideology influences engender a better understanding of differences in attitudes toward subordinate use of favoritism across Asian societies. ⓒ 2012 Springer Science+Business Media New York.
2013	Does productivity growth lower inflation in Korea?We investigate Granger causality between productivity growth and inflation in Korea using quarterly data for the period 1985Q1-2002Q4. Our results indicate unidirectional Granger causality from productivity growth to inflation. In light of such causality, we estimate the effect of productivity and other variables on productivity. According to our regression results, a 1% increase in labour and Total Factor Productivity  reduces Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation by 0.07-0.08% and 0.37-0.44%, respectively. Our results also suggest that the productivity-inflation nexus became stronger in Korea since the Asian financial crisis, and that this was largely due to structural reform and technological progress. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2013	Eurozone crisis and BRIICKS stock markets: Contagion or market interdependence?This paper examines the financial contagion in an emerging market setting by investigating the contagion effects of GIPSI (Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy), USA, UK and Japan markets on BRIICKS (Brazil, Russia, India, Indonesia, China, South Korea and South Africa) stock markets. During Euro-zone crisis period (October 19, 2009-January 31, 2012), the empirical results indicate that among GIPSI countries, Ireland, Italy and Spain appear to be most contagious for BRIICKS markets compared to Greece. The study reports that Brazil, India, Russia, China and South Africa are strongly hit by the contagion shock during the Eurozone crisis period. However, Indonesia and South Korea report only interdependence and not contagion. From policy perspective, the findings provide useful implications for possible decoupling strategies to insulate the economy from contagious effects. For multilateral organizations like International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank, the study will provide an important direction in undertaking coordinated rescue measures for the vulnerable as well as contagious countries. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Legal frameworks and credit information systems in China, Korea, and SingaporeWe analyse the relationship between Public Credit Registries and Credit Bureaus in East Asia by observing credit information markets, in particular, in China, Singapore, and Korea. Singapore's credit information system consists of only a Credit Bureau. China and Korea have gone in different directions. Public Credit Registries play the role of credit information sharing in China, while Public Credit Registries and Credit Bureaus coexist in Korea. The results suggest an important relationship between the development of financial markets and credit information systems. The lower the income level and the heavier the government's hand in financial markets, the greater the need for Public Credit Registries; whereas, financial liberalisation and rising incomes encourage Credit Bureaus. ⓒ 2013 Crawford School of Public Policy,The Australian National University and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2013	Import protection, business cycles, and exchange rates: Evidence from the Great RecessionThis paper estimates the impact of macroeconomic fluctuations on import protection policies over 1988:Q1-2010:Q4 for five industrialized economies - the United States, European Union, Australia, Canada and South Korea. We find evidence of a strong countercyclical trade policy response in the pre-Great Recession period of 1988:Q1-2008:Q3 during which increases in domestic unemployment rates, real appreciations in bilateral exchange rates, and declines in the GDP growth rates of bilateral trading partners led to substantial increases in new temporary trade barriers. We then apply this pre-Great Recession empirical model to realized macroeconomic data from 2008:Q4 to 2010:Q4 and find that it predicts a surge of new import protection during the Great Recession - e.g., for the US and EU, the model predicts that new trade barriers would cover an additional 15 percentage points of nonoil imports, well above the baseline level of 2-3% of import coverage immediately preceding the crisis. Finally, we examine why the realized trade policy response differed from model predictions. While exchange rate movements played an important role in limiting new import protection during the Great Recession, we provide evidence of one particularly important change in trade policy responsiveness; i.e., in this period, governments refrained from imposing new temporary trade barriers against foreign trading partners experiencing their own weak or negative economic growth. ⓒ 2012 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Efficiency and competition in Korean bankingUsing a translog cost function, we first estimate the economies of scale and then calculate the bank-specific scale elasticities for Korean banks over the period 2007Q2 to 2011Q2. We find that all the National banks operate with significant economies of scale, with bank-specific scale elasticities ranging from 82% to 88%, while half of the Regional banks and Specialized banks also exhibited significant scale economies, with bank-specific scale elasticities averaging around 92% and 83%, respectively. Incorporating these bank-specific scale elasticities directly within the model at the second stage of the Panzar and Rosse (1987) approach to measure market concentration, we find evidence of perfect competition prevailing in Korean banking. This offers a basis for merger policy where there are scale economies to be obtained - reducing average costs - yet having little destabilizing effect on the competitive nature of the industry. ⓒ 2013 Taylor & Francis.
2013	The Political Economy of Brazilian (Latin American) and Korean (East Asian) Comparative Development: Moving beyond Nation-centred ApproachesThe article argues that in order to grasp fully Brazilian and Korean post-WWII developmental and growth experiences, it is first necessary to account for global-economy dynamics and the transformations in the International Division of Labour. These, together with local factors that particularly affect the objective conditions for the valorisation of capital in different productive sectors, explain the specific characteristics of capitalism in both countries. The article claims that capital has accumulated in Brazil and Korea under two different specific forms. In Brazil, capital has accumulated while producing on an internationally small-scale for domestic markets and compensating the resultant high production costs through the appropriation of a portion of the abundant ground-rent. While before the mid-1960s capital accumulated in Korea under that same specific form (though ground-rent was complemented with a portion of small agrarian capital profits and foreign aid), it afterwards began to do so through the production of specific industrial goods for world markets using the relatively cheap and disciplined labour-force available in the country. World-scale technological changes associated with computerisation and electronics-based automation have changed Korea's 'competitive advantages' as they resulted in sharp advances in the codification of technical knowledge and, thus, in the reduction of the tacit know-how and skills necessary to perform several labour processes. Though resulting in strong growth, these processes have created new contradictions and challenges for Korea which it may be incapable of overcoming. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2013	Emerging and Submerging Powers: Imagined Geographies in the New Development Partnership at the Busan Fourth High Level ForumThe geopolitics of development is in a state of uncertainty and transition that the Busan High Level Forum both mirrored and contributed to. Busan established a new discourse of international development cooperation in which the old donor-recipient relationship is replaced by an equator-less landscape of a multi-stakeholder global partnership. But by analysing the Busan preparations and conference through textual analysis and participant observation we found it to be a fractured landscape of variable imagined geographies, suggesting that the question of who is 'North' and who is 'South' will continue to shape global negotiations on the future of development cooperation. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2013	Asian business systems: Institutional comparison, clusters and implications for varieties of capitalism and business systems theoryWe present an institutional comparison of 13 major Asian business systems- China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Laos, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam-with one another and five major Western economies-France, Germany, Sweden, the UK and the USA. We find five major types of business systems in Asia: (post-)socialist, advanced city, emerging Southeast Asian, advanced Northeast Asian and Japanese. With the exception of Japan, all Asian forms of capitalism are fundamentally distinct from Western types of capitalism. We conclude that the Varieties of Capitalism (VOC) dichotomy is not applicable to Asia; that none of the existing major frameworks capture all Asian types of capitalism; and that Asian business systems (except Japan) cannot be understood through categories identified in the West. Our analysis further suggests a need for the field to invest in further research on social capital, culture, informality and multiplexity.
2013	South Korea's saemaul (new village) movement: An organisational technology for the production of developmental subjectsThis paper uses the Foucauldian concepts of governmentality and apparatus (dispositive) to understand how the state can use an organisational technology to penetrate everyday life through hegemonic discourse. With a case study of the Saemaul (New Village) movement, a rural development initiative in South Korea in the 1970s, we analyse how the state used half-civilian, half-bureaucratic agents called Saemaul leaders to inscribe the discourse of developmentalism in the peasants' bodies and souls. This article claims that organisational technology plays a critical role in the diffusion of hegemonic discourse during rapid structural transformations such as the industrialisation of South Korea. ⓒ2013 Canadian Association for the Study of International Development (CASID).
2013	The Extent of Growth Dependence of Selected East Asian Economies on the USAThis paper assesses the extent of economic growth dependence of a number of East Asian countries on the USA based upon the quarterly data series spanning from the early 1990s. Generally, the empirical results suggest weak links of these economies to the US contrary to a-priori expectations. Only the GDP of Taiwan has a long-run relationship with the USA. Though Granger causal links from the USA to Japan, Malaysia, the Philippines and Taiwan exist, they are projected as weak by the impulse response functions. Co-integration and short-run causal links with the USA are ruled out in the case of China, Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Thailand. Contemporaneous correlations of output growth shocks merely exist between the USA on one hand and Indonesia and Taiwan on the other. Hence, all this would suggest that these East Asian economies are generally in a position to grow quite independently of the USA, barring a global economic crisis. Nevertheless, they should strive for greater resilience by raising domestic consumption so that they need not always count on countercyclical macroeconomic policy measures to provide a buffer against external shocks. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2013	'We've learnt how to be local': The deepening territorial embeddedness of Samsung-Tesco in South KoreaThis article seeks to contribute to the growing economic-geographical literature on the globalization of retailing by offering a longitudinal analysis of the operations of Samsung-Tesco in South Korea. More specifically, it endeavours to explain how Samsung-Tesco has rapidly become one of South Korea's most successful retailers since Tesco's market entry in 1999. The analysis mobilizes the notions of territorial embeddedness and strategic localization to unpack how Samsung-Tesco has secured sustained growth through progressively deepening its connections with the host economy and society in different ways. In broader theoretical terms, the study provides rich illustration of transnational corporation post-entry dynamics in host retail markets, demonstrating that strategic localization is not a static phenomenon, but a dynamic set of processes that evolve through time and in relation to the changing competitive conditions in the host market concerned. ⓒ The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
2013	Work values of the next generation of business leaders in Shanghai, Tokyo, and SeoulUnderstanding the work values of the current and future workforce is essential for designing a human resource management system that attracts, motivates, and retains talent. This study provides an updated, in-depth analysis of the work values of the next generation of business leaders in the commercial centers of China, Japan, and Korea. Although previous research has often clustered these countries together and labeled them Confucian Asia, survey results from more than 700 respondents reveal striking differences in work values across countries. The Chinese are more individualistic and career oriented, whereas the Japanese are more risk averse and work oriented, and the Koreans are often somewhere in-between. We argue that the value differences can be largely explained by different economic influences in these three countries. This study enhances our understanding of crossvergence theory by distinguishing economic influence in the economic development stage, economic growth, and inward foreign direct investments. While these economic indicators might be related, their influences on work values could be conflicting. The findings suggest that that each economic indicator has a unique effect on the development of work values. ⓒ 2011 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.
2013	Inflation Thresholds and GrowthThis paper investigates inflation thresholds that lead to higher growth rates using five-year averages of standard variables for 84 countries from 1965 to 2004. The historical experience has important policy implications for developing countries: (i) the catch-up effect has worked only when inflation is below 12%; (ii) the positive effect of human capital on growth has been present and significant when inflation has been below 15%; (iii) financial development has been effective only when inflation has been below 10%; (iv) government size has negatively affected growth when inflation has been below 10%; (v) trade has positively affected growth when inflation has been below 8%. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	Foreign Investments and Institutional Convergence in South-eastern EuropeForeign investments are in the focus of most governments around the world. In order to be able to set a policy agenda that is successful in promoting FDI, it is necessary to understand the determinants of foreign investments. This paper examines whether, and to what extent, sound institutions and the degree of regulation deter or attract FDI flows in four economies of south-eastern Europe. In a dynamic panel analysis, a broad set of institutional and regulatory variables that may affect the decision of foreign investors to undertake investment projects in this region is examined, using firm-level data. Analysis shows that the quality of the institutional environment significantly influences foreign capital. Governments in this region should, therefore, focus primarily on creating an effective legal system, having relatively stable political and economic conditions. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	The Effects of Globalization on the Elasticity of Labor Demand and EmploymentThis paper examines the effect of globalization accelerated by an expansion in trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) on the national labor demand under an open economy with underemployment. We find that the higher the elasticity of substitution, the flatter the tangent slope of the labor demand curve under a trade economy (without FDI). If the wage level at home is much higher than that in a foreign country, an increase in the elasticity of substitution decreases domestic employment. The beginning of FDI with international production relocation makes the tangent slope of the home labor demand curve flatter than that under a trade economy. If the home wage falls within the high (low) range, FDI decreases (increases) home employment. This result implies that, in agreement with the conventional wisdom, FDI does not necessarily lead to the hollowing out of employment in a high-wage country. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2013	External shocks and inflation in the trade-dependent korean economy: A SVAR approachThis paper estimates the inflationary effects of globalization and other nonmonetary factors and then presents a statistical decomposition of the rate through a structural VAR using monthly and quarterly data. The major results of this study are summarized as follows: First,the CPI inflation rate in Korea reflects an increased exchange rate,import price inflation,and positive external demand. Second,the impacts of economic growth and import price on CPI inflation appeared relatively greater. Third,the inflationary effects of external shocks using the quarterly data are similar to those using monthly data except for the impact of oil price inflation shock. In conclusion,nonmonetary international factors influenced inflation dynamics in Korea in addition to the monetary shocks. Therefore,it is recommended that in order to reduce excessive fluctuation in CPI inflation,an import-dependent economy such as Korea should ease its excessive dependence on high-cost foreign intermediates over the long-term through import-substitution policies and allow a real appreciation of the domestic currency.
2013	The difference in regional trade margins and its determinants: Evidence from koreaThis paper decomposes the extensive and intensive margins of the 16 Korean regions’ exports over the sample period from 2000 to 2010,using regional export data dis-aggregated at the HS 10-digit level. We find that there is a large disparity in the extensive and intensive margins among Korean regions. Consistent with international trade theories,the size of a region’s economy (GDP,income,and population) has a significant and appropriately signed effect on the extensive and intensive margins. However,the effects work dominantly through the intensive margin rather than the extensive margin. We also find that regional innovation activity only has a positive effect on the extensive margin,and regional infrastructure variables are found to have a strong effect on the two margins. This paper contributes to the literature regarding the extensive and intensive margins of a country’s regional trade.
2013	The impact of technical barriers to trade: The cases of trade between China, Japan, Korea, and the USThe purpose of this paper is to analyze the impact of Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) from the examples of trade between China, Japan, Korea and US in the manufacturing industry. The gravity model is used to determine the effect of the TBT on trade values. The results indicate that the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) do have negative effects on trade in the long term, and the governments and economies should actually reduce the amount of this non-tariff barrier. ⓒ 2013 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg.
2013	Factors affecting customer loyalty of mobile RFID services in KoreaMobile radio frequency identification (RFID) services are expected to be launched in full-scale as a new service option in the telecommunications service market following the development of RFID technology and maturation of the IT infrastructure. Importance of customer loyalty has been widely recognized in business marketing for a long time, and the customer loyalty enhancement strategies for mobile RFID services is of significance to telecommunication carriers in terms of new business value creation. This study identifies the factors affecting customer loyalty for mobile RFID services and presents telecommunication service managers with information useful for improving customer loyalty for related new services. The data was collected from customers with some experience in the use of mobile RFID services through an online survey for an empirical analysis. And the collected data was analysed with structural equation model to verify the cause and effect relationship among perceived quality, switching cost, perceived value, customer satisfaction, switching barrier and customer relationship. The analysis showed that the quality of tag recognition and content quality proved to have a direct impact on the customer satisfaction, whereas connection quality and ease of use would rather indirectly than directly influence customer satisfaction by perceived value. Perceived value and satisfaction affected the loyalty. Adaptation cost affects switching barriers, the higher the switching barriers, the stronger the loyalty. Based on the results of the empirical analysis, practical implications were given. What is more, mobile RFID customers were divided into two groups that are favourably and unfavourably disposed toward the service, and suggested customer loyalty improvement strategies adapted for each group. ⓒ 2013 Vilnius Gediminas Technical University (VGTU) Press.
2013	Are Asian business cycles different?This paper studies the unusual features of emerging economy business cycles in Asia. When we assess whether approaches from the previous literature can explain Asian business cycles, we conclude that standard models based on permanent growth shocks do not replicate key features of Asian business cycles. The evidence suggests that different transmission mechanisms explain the connections between consumption, net exports, and export or import in Latin America and Asia. For evidence of a special transmission mechanism, we study durable goods business cycles in Asia (Korea), noting that strong pro-cyclical durable goods consumption may be explained by the export-income channel coupled with market laddering by which firms have expanded the variety and quality of their durable goods production. ⓒ 2013 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts.
2013	An alternative approach of input-output tables to dynamic structure changes in Korean IT industriesThe structure of the IT industry has always evolved in line with technological progresses and changes in consumer preferences, as well as with regulatory trends. This is why, when assessing the effect that a new technology or industry policy may have on the national economy, companies and policy-makers need to consider dynamic structural changes affecting the IT industry. One of the most popular existing methods for economic impact analysis is based on a traditional input-output table, and is conducted over a period between the current time and a given time in the future. In this study, we compare the accuracy of RAS and Cross Entropy (CE), the two most widely employed methods for updating input-output (IO) tables, by applying them to Korean IT industries. The main results of this study are the following. In terms of the accuracy of input coefficient estimates, we have found that both the RAS and CE methods have a tendency to overestimate or underestimate them. When the Korean industry was first divided into fourteen sectors, and the RAS and CE methods were applied to each of the fourteen industries, it was difficult to discern a consistent trend for the two methods concerning their accuracy in estimation of input coefficients. Secondly, when used to update an IO table in which the IT industry is subdivided into IT equipment and services, neither the CE nor RAS method proved distinctly superior to the other. Third, in light of the above two findings, we concluded that updating IO tables is best done through a hybrid method combining the CE and RAS methods. This paper proposes a procedure consisting of two steps: IO tables are first updated using the two methods, which are once again updated by employing the OLS average approach through the use of optimal weights. ⓒ 2013 Copyright Vilnius Gediminas Technical University (VGTU) Press Technika.
2013	Inflation Targeting and Regional Inflation Persistence: Evidence from KoreaThe adoption of a credible monetary policy regime such as inflation targeting is known to reduce the persistence of inflation fluctuations. This conclusion, however, is typically derived from aggregate inflation or sectoral inflation rates, not from regional inflation data. This paper studies the regional dimension of inflation targeting; that is, the consequences of inflation targeting for regional inflation persistence. Based on data for Korean cities and provinces it is shown that the adoption of inflation targeting leads: (i) to a fall in inflation persistence at the regional level; and (ii) to a reduction in the cross-regional heterogeneity in inflation persistence. A factor model lends further support to the role of the common component, and, hence, monetary policy, for regional inflation persistence. ⓒ 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2013	Financial conditions indexes for Asian economiesFinancial conditions indexes (FCIs) are constructed for five Asian economies, namely, Hong Kong, China; Japan; the Republic of Korea; Malaysia; and Singapore, using a principal component analysis (PCA) methodology from Hatzius et al. (2010) and quarterly data. Various financial stress indicators are included, allowing the constructed Financial Condition Index to capture important episodes in each economy's financial history. The predictive power of the constructed FCIs is higher than that of benchmark AR models and they generally outperform single financial indicators. A decomposition of the FCIs sheds light on particular sources of financial stress. A regional FCI based on the individual economy FCIs is also constructed. ⓒ 2013 by Asian Development Bank.
2013	Consumption, financial wealth and labor income in KoreaBy examining the relationship between consumption, financial wealth and labor income in Korea, this paper presents three key findings. First, we find evidence that Korean households hold a larger proportion of their wealth in human capital instead of financial wealth, compared to households in other countries. Potentially, this finding appears consistent with Koreans' enthusiasm for human development through education despite low government funding. Another important finding is that only financial wealth fluctuations contain a large portion of temporary components. Hence, financial wealth is mainly responsible for adjustments to restore the long-run relationship between consumption, financial wealth and labor income during the examined period. Third, and perhaps most interestingly, this paper finds that before the 1997 Asian financial crisis, households in Korea had difficulty smoothing their consumption over time. This finding may be at least partly attributable to households' limited access to bank loans and their low level of financial wealth accumulation prior to the crisis. In contrast, we find little evidence that households' consumption behavior has changed during the recent global financial crisis. ⓒ 2013 Elsevier B.V.
2013	Oligarchic land ownership, entrepreneurship, and economic developmentThis paper develops a theory in which oligarchic ownership of land or other natural resources may impede entrepreneurship in the manufacturing sector and may thereby retard structural change and economic development. We show that, due to oligopsony power of owners in the agricultural labor market, higher ownership concentration depresses entrepreneurial investments by landless, credit-constrained households, whose investment possibilities depend on the income earned in the primary sector. We discuss historical evidence from Latin America, India, Taiwan and South Korea which supports our theory. ⓒ 2012 Elsevier B.V.
2013	How do foreign investors affect corporate policy?: Evidence from KoreaThis paper focuses on a mechanism through which foreign investors affect corporate policy in emerging economies. We hypothesize that foreign investors who provide effective monitoring may affect corporate policy through pushing for a greater proportion of outsiders or foreigners on the board of directors who are less affiliated with controlling shareholders. Using the unique features of foreign ownership in Korea, we find that firms with an increase in foreign ownership are more likely to increase the fraction of outsiders and foreign directors on the board in the subsequent year. Increased board independence in response to a pressure from foreign investors results in a significant change in payout and investment policy. ⓒ 2012 Elsevier Inc.
2012	Are capital controls effective? the case of the republic of koreaCapital controls have recently attracted interest as capital surges in emerging market economies threaten to bring about economic instability and heighten difficulties in implementing macroeconomic policies. While an option that can be taken to deal with huge capital inflows involves the use of capital controls, there is no consensus on their effectiveness. Against this background, our paper aims to investigate the effectiveness of capital controls in the Republic of Korea. This paper first reviews the history of capital account policy, which can be divided into five stages: (i) gradual liberalization during the 1980s and early 1990s, (ii) acceleration of liberalization during the early and mid-1990s, (iii) the big-bang approach to liberalization during the Asian financial crisis, (iv) liberalization for facilitation of capital market development beginning the late 1990s, and (v) the conservative approach during the global financial crisis. To quantify the trends, this paper constructs measures of capital account control/liberalization based on the official record of government policies. In the second part, it discusses the effects of capital account control/liberalization in four ways. First, the behavior of key macro variables in the Republic of Korea is reviewed by comparing the periods before and after serious capital account liberalization. Second, the effects of shocks to the capital account control/liberalization indexes on capital flows are examined using a VAR model. Third, the effects of the United States (US) monetary policy shocks on capital flows and the interest rate of the Republic of Korea are examined for the period of capital controls and the period of capital account liberalization. Fourth, a simple event study is conducted of recent capital control measures. The empirical results based on VAR models show that shocks to capital account controls do not have significant effects on capital flows in most cases. However, capital flows, the current account, and the exchange rate were far more volatile in the period of a liberalized capital account. It is also interesting that during the latter period, the Republic of Korea did not gain monetary autonomy despite adopting a freely floating exchange rate. This result may be related to volatile capital flows under a liberalized capital account. Finally, the results of the event study tend to support the effectiveness of capital controls in altering the composition of capital flows. ⓒ 2012 Asian Development Bank.
2012	Inflation Effects on Finance-Growth Link: A Panel Smooth Threshold ApproachThis paper proposes an original framework to examine whether the strength of the relationship between financial development and economic growth, widely documented in the recent empirical literature, varies with the inflation rate. Using a Panel Smooth Threshold Regression for 71 developed and developing countries over the period 1960-2004, we find a non-linear link between financial development and economic growth: three equilibriums are identified with inflation rate. Then, there is an inflation threshold, for which finance ceases to increase economic growth. Our results suggest that for an inflation rate higher than 20%, economic growth is not, or is negatively, affected by financial development, whereas the impact of finance on growth is positive and significant for an inflation level below 10%. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Failing and Merging as Competing Alternatives during Times of Financial Distress: Evidence from the Colombian Financial CrisisThis paper studies the determinants of individual bank failures and M&A processes in Colombia during the financial crisis of the late 1990s. Using bank-specific data we estimate competing risk hazards models and find that while profitability and capitalization are the most important determinants of the probability of failing, a bank's size, efficiency and capitalization are the main determinants of the probability of participating in an integration process. All else constant, an increase in capitalization reduces the probability of disappearing, whether due to the occurrence of bankruptcy, a merge or an acquisition. However, a marginal increase in capitalization reduces the probability of bankruptcy significantly more than the probability of integration. This study is the first to present a competing risks hazard model to identify covariates that excerpt significant influence on the probability of failing or merging for banks of an emerging economy. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Money Supply Rules and Exchange Rate DynamicsThis paper examines the implications of monetary policy rules for exchange rate dynamics. I extend a standard New Open Economy Macroeconomics model with the introduction of a simple money supply rule, whereby central banks change their monetary policy if output diverges from potential output or if inflation diverges from the target inflation. A key result is that, in the case of permanent technology and monetary shocks, the nominal exchange rate does not follow a random walk; instead, the exchange rate undershoots its long-run value. An undershooting of the exchange rate derives from the active monetary policy that both countries conduct. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	The US tech pulse, stock prices, and exchange rate dynamics: Evidence from Asian developing countriesThis paper empirically investigates the economic relationship between the US and Asian economies after the Asian currency crisis in Indonesia, Korea, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand, employing a cointegration methodology. Based on the empirical results, we conclude that the interdependence between the US and these Asian economies has intensified especially in information technology industries, and that their stock markets are integrated. On the other hand, the relationship between the domestic stock and foreign exchange markets is found to have a negative sign, interpreted by portfolio balance approach, in Indonesia, Korea, and Thailand. This result implies that the exchange rates of these countries are relatively vulnerable to fluctuation in international portfolio investments.
2012	Changes in stock price volatility and monetary policy regimes: Evidence from Asian countriesThis paper investigates the interactions between changes in stock prices and monetary policy regimes in four emerging Asian countries - Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand - using a Markov regime-switching autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (MS-ARCH) model. To connect the stability of monetary policy to stock market volatility, the authors assume that monetary policy and stock price regimes are governed by the same fundamental: the state of the economy. They find that there exists an asymmetric relationship between the volatility of stock prices and the stability of monetary policy regimes. Most of their findings are consistent with real world observations.
2012	Unemployment hysteresis in the East Asia-Pacific region: New evidence from MADF and SURADF testsThis study re-examined the unemployment hysteresis hypothesis in the context of twelve countries in the East Asia-Pacific region, namely Australia, China, Guam, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, and Thailand. It employed the multivariate augmented Dickey-Fuller test and the seemingly unrelated regression augmented Dickey-Fuller test for this purpose. The empirical results confirmed the presence of unemployment hysteresis in these countries, except in South Korea and New Zealand. The findings indicated that the equilibrium rate of unemployment in the East Asia-Pacific region tended to be path dependent and that cyclical fluctuations in these countries' economies could have permanent effects on the level of unemployment. These results provide additional empirical proof of the validity of the hysteresis hypothesis. ⓒ 2012 Crawford School of Public Policy, The Australian National University and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2012	Do emerging donors allocate aid as dac members do? The case of korea in the millennium eraThis study estimates the responsiveness of Korean aid to recipient countries' socio-economic development needs and the strategic and commercial interests of Korea, with implications for other emerging and Development Assistance Committee (DAC) donors. For this purpose, fixed effects regression models are used for the allocation of aid by the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) to 157 recipient countries over the period 2004-2008. The results contrast sharply with the trend seen in DAC member countries. KOICA's aid allocations are consistent with neither socio-economic development and poverty-reduction objectives of aid, nor much of the strategic and commercial interests of Korea. ⓒ 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2012	Does oil price shock affect small open economies? Evidence from Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and TaiwanWe apply recursive VAR/VECM as well as panel data models to examine whether oil price shocks have any significant impacts upon the Asian small open economies. We found no significant impacts on Real Gross Domestic Product (RGDP), regardless of model specifications. However, we detected positive significant effects on unemployment after three time lags and significant contemporaneous effects on CPI in panel regressions contrary to previous studies. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	Modelling food price volatility and testing heat waves and/or meteor showers effects: Evidence for Asia and PacificThis paper assesses the volatility and cross country mean and volatility spillover effects of food prices within and across global and selected Asian and Pacific countries namely Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, India and Thailand. The principal method of analysis comprises the development of a set of component GARCH-type models of conditional variance. Volatility characteristics and spillover effects of food prices are examined across a full (1995-2010) and two subsamples (1995-2001 and 2002-2010) with daily food price indices. Main findings of the study are as follows: (1) like other asset prices, food price volatility can be modelled by CGARCH variant of GARCH-family models for world as well as country specific levels, (2) increased risk does not necessarily lead to increased returns for world and specified countries except few instances, (3) mixed evidence of cross country mean and volatility spillover effects are reported. No exact direction of spillover effects from exporter to importer or importer to exporter countries can be drawn rather mixed evidence of spillover from exporter to importer, exporter to exporter, importer to exporter and geographical proximity can be documented. The 'meteor shower' hypothesis that the conditional variance of the change in one market depends on the past information of other markets dominates 'heat wave' hypothesis that the conditional variance depends on the past information of that market while for shorter time period 'heat wave' effects dominate 'meteor shower' effects.
2012	Ending "too big to fail": Government promises versus investor perceptionsCan a government credibly promise not to bailout firms whose failure would have major negative systemic consequences? Our analysis of the Republic of Korea's 1997-1999 crisis, suggests an answer: No. Despite a general "no bailout" policy during the crisis, the largest Korean corporate groups (chaebol)-facing severe financial and governance problems-could still borrow heavily from households through issuing bonds at prices implying very low expected default risk. The evidence suggests "too big to fail" beliefs were not eliminated by government promises, presumably because investors believed that this policy was not time consistent. Subsequent government handling of potential and actual defaults by Daewoo and Hyundai confirmed the market view that creditors would be protected. ⓒ 2012 by Asian Development Bank.
2012	Green growth strategies-Korean initiativesKorea has embarked on a far-reaching green growth strategy that promises to lay the foundations for a transition from a predominantly 'brown' to a green industrial system. In this paper the key features of the Korean approach to formulating and implementing a green growth strategy are outlined, and the progress achieved so far (2009-2012) is reviewed. Comparisons with China's green development strategy, as embodied in the 12th Five Year Plan (2011-2015), present themselves - in that both strategies are concerned with industrial restructuring and the building of new growth engines designed to create export platforms for the 21st century. Reductions in levels of carbon emissions flow from these industrial policy initiatives. The paper concludes that the Korean strategy is carefully crafted and implemented with full government commitment and leadership, demonstrating that such commitment is feasible in a democracy. What cannot be guaranteed is continuing commitment from successive political administrations. ⓒ 2012 Elsevier Ltd.
2012	Foreign direct investment, labour unionization and income inequality of KoreaThe Korean economy has witnessed significant expansion of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows and decrease in labour unionization ratio. This article analyses their effect on income inequality during 1982-2008. The small sample cointegration test and the error correction model confirm the existence of cointegration among the concerned variables. The error correction model shows that the increasing values of FDI inflows and the decreasing labour unionization ratio have led to deterioration in income inequality. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	Monetary and exchange rate policy in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis: The case of KoreaThis paper extends the structural VAR model of Bernanke and Mihov (1998) to one under a small-open economy in order to explore how the operating procedures of the monetary and foreign exchange policy in Korea changed in the aftermath of the 1997 Asian financial crisis. It finds strong evidence of apparent regime changes in the monetary and exchange rate policy after the financial crisis. The implications for monetary policy in Korea are that the operating procedure switched to a call rate target in the post-crisis period, but that its stance on monetary policy may remain in transition under an inflation targeting framework and a freely floating exchange rate regime. Moreover, the exchange rate presumably plays an important role in monetary policy or as an intermediate monetary policy target in order to stabilize prices.
2012	Seeds of Reform: Lessons from Vietnam about Informality and Institutional ChangeOrdinary North Korean citizens have been coping with economic hardship by eking out livelihoods for themselves. Grassroots markets and local petty economies have become commonplace. A point of conjecture amongst scholars and policymakers is whether these developments may be the start of significant economic system change towards a market economy. This article reviews lessons learned from the transition economies about the informal and social processes required to effectively realize major economic transitions in order to discuss the preliminary evidence we have about North Korea's current informal civilian economic activity. Applying a social cognition theory of institutional change focuses our attention onto the discretionary behavior of local government, the social structure and networks that form firms and exemplars, and the social trust needed to move to new economic paradigms. It also discusses what the operations of hwa-gyo entrepreneurs, ethnic Chinese living in North Korea, pose to the existing state of the literature. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Scenarios for a Transition to a Prosperous Market Economy in North KoreaWe examine in detail two possible scenarios for a transition to the market economy in North Korea. In the first scenario, we explore a transition path of North Korea to the market economy following a regime collapse. In the second scenario, we explore a transition path that would be chosen by the North Korean leaders, following the experience of China and Vietnam. While these scenarios have common features, they also involve important differences. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Global Financial Crisis and China's Transition: Balancing Market Power with Active Role of the GovernmentChina's transition is uncompleted in terms of privatization and of government intervention into economic activities. However, China performed relatively well in handling the 1997 Asia Financial Crisis and the 2008 American Financial Storm, as it keeps a strong government on both macro-economic management and corporate activities. This paper provides some evidence from China to support the theories of developmentalists on the active role of governments in economic development and market failures. We argue that the success of transition requires a balance of market power and government regulations. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Government, Business and Finance in Korean Industrial DevelopmentThis paper reassesses the roles of government, business and finance in South Korea's economic growth and development. It argues that these extra-market mechanisms were each important, in their own ways, for solving coordination problems that would have otherwise posed obstacles to industrial growth. But what were solutions in the early stages of modern economic growth proved to be impediments later, as the problems that had to be solved changed but the institutions did not. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	How the Rapid Development of VoIP Technologies Affects Consumer Welfare and the MarketThe impact of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) growth on other telecommunication services, such as landlines and mobile telephony, has gained significant interest in Korea recently. An emerging alternative to landline telecommunications, VoIP is experiencing explosive growth in demand and is providing significant economic utility to consumers. The rapid growth of smart phones has also created a considerable amount of controversy regarding the potential impact of VoIP on the mobile phone market. This study provides quantitative estimations of consumer surplus for landline, mobile and VoIP services in the Korean telecommunications market using monthly call data from January of 2006 to June of 2009, a period when VoIP services grew rapidly. Empirical analyses are conducted to estimate consumer surplus based on the demand functions of each telecommunication service. Additional analyses are conducted on consumer surplus change as well. Policy implications for the rapid growth of VoIP and its impact on consumer surplus change are also discussed. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2012	Business groups and institutional upheaval in emerging economies: Corporate venturing in KoreaIn this paper we detail the nature of market-oriented institutional upheaval and its implications for business groups in Korea during the late 1990s. Employing case study methodology we identify four projects that were nurtured under corporate venture programs in response to this upheaval: two internal incubating projects and two new venture investment projects. We analyze these cases employing the concepts of resource fit and organizational misfit. Based upon these in-depth case analyses we generate a conceptual framework that managers can rely on for the choice of organizing mode of corporate venture projects. We conclude by discussing managerial implications and future research directions. ⓒ 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.
2012	Open technology innovation activity and firm value: Evidence from Korean firmsDespite the importance of Open Technology Innovation Activity (OTIA) for firm value, the literature investigating effects of OTIA announcements of developing country firms is not known in international academic circles. Our study using an event study approach examines the effects of OTIA (technology import and joint R&D) announcements of firms in Korea, one of the leading developing and highly innovative countries. We find that the announcements of OTIA produce ositive average abnormal returns. Interestingly, unlike the prior studies on developed country firms, OTIA with firms in the homogenous industry leads to greater firm value than that involving firms in heterogenic industries. This implies an importance of a technological fusion with external irms in different industries for value of developing country firms. In addition, this article finds no home bias that a nationality of partner firms is not essential for the relation between OTIA and value of firms. ⓒ 2012 Taylor & Francis.
2012	China's Free Trade Agreements with ASEAN, Japan and Korea: A Comparative AnalysisThe role of China in East Asia's recovery from the recent global financial and economic crisis highlights China's position as an engine of growth for this region. From the viewpoint of China, there are many potential gains from entering into free trade agreements (FTAs) with its neighbors, who collectively form a large and fast-growing market. In this paper, we qualitatively and quantitatively assess the four main permutations of China's FTAs with East Asian major economies: China-ASEAN, China-Japan, China-Korea and ASEAN+3. We compare the effects of these FTAs on China's output and welfare. Our comparative analysis shows that China will gain from all three bilateral FTAs, while gaining the most from the ASEAN+3. Because forming a region-wide FTA, such as the ASEAN+3, is expected to be gradual and difficult, China should continue to engage in bilateral FTAs as a medium-term and alternative strategy. However, in the long term, China should pursue a region-wide FTA. ⓒ 2012 The Authors China & World Economy ⓒ 2012 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2012	The Politics of Technological Upgrading in South Korea: How Government and Business Challenged the Might of QualcommHow has industrial restructuring and technological upgrading in South Korea undertaken in the post-crisis era impacted on the state's capacity to guide strategic industry development? The latest reincarnation of the 'end of the developmental state' thesis proposes that industry policies are losing their strategic long-term oriented character due to the state's lack of legitimacy to play a guiding role after the economic recovery. I test this view in light of the Korean state's role, since the early 2000s, in the promotion of a new mobile communications software standard known as the Wireless Internet Platform for Interoperability (WIPI). I argue that the Korean state retains a strategic long-term approach to techno-industrial governance. The argument is developed through examining how bureaucratic actors gained the legitimacy to challenge Qualcomm, the strategy involved in promoting WIPI, and how the bureaucracy supported domestic firms under an increasingly open international trading environment. The findings reveal the state's ability to renew its legitimacy to play a developmental role through re-articulating policy goals from catching-up to nurturing innovation. Furthermore, the state has experimented with new forms of cooperation between government and business to nurture the growth of new infant technological growth sectors such as telecommunications. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	The industrial and technology policies of Korea from the perspective of design principlesThis study focuses on how replicable lessons can be derived from the Korean industrial and technology policies implemented in the early stage of economic development. To achieve this aim, the paper presents the following arguments. First, governmental intervention is indispensable to support industrial development and technological capability upgrading, even though the extent and manner of the intervention may differ depending on the context that any individual developing country faces. Second, design principles of policy cases should be identified in order to extract replicable lessons from the successful cases within the Korean experience. Third, the identified design principles are (i) a coherent policy framework, (ii) the co-evolution of policy structure, (iii) strong public-private partnership, and (iv) adequate implementation capability. Fourth, industrial and technology policy cases based on the Korean experience illustrate the appropriateness of the above design principles. Fifth, in order for other developing countries to adopt the design principles revealed by the Korean cases, it asserts success on a small scale, such as in one specific sector, before such practices are diffused into other sectors to support the formation of higher level policy. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2012	Trade Cycles in a Re-export Economy: The Case of SingaporeThis article uses econometric methods to test the hypothesis that Singapore is a 're-export economy'. If the hypothesis is true, merchandize exports and imports would co-move together over the course of trade cycles while exports would be insensitive to the exchange rate due to their high import content. Impulse response analysis of a monthly structural vector error correction model incorporating these trade aggregates, proxies for external demand and relative prices affirms the empirical validity of the re-export hypothesis. Innovation accounting also suggests that growth in the worldwide semiconductor industry rather than price competitiveness is the most important factor behind's Singapore's trade expansion in the long run. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	The Effects of Monetary Policy Shocks in Bangladesh: A Bayesian Structural VAR ApproachThis paper develops a Bayesian structural VAR model for Bangladesh in a small-open-economy context in order to estimate the effects of monetary policy shocks on various macroeconomic variables. To increase the precision of the model identification, we allow the macroeconomic variables of the model to interact simultaneously with each other. This paper finds that the liquidity effect and the exchange-rate effect of the monetary policy shock are realized immediately, while industrial production responds with a lag of over half a year, and the inflation rate responds with a lag of more than one year. I also find that monetary policy shocks are not the dominant source of industrial production fluctuations in Bangladesh. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Flexibility: Stability's Best Friend in Non-transparent Countries?This paper proposes a framework for studying the optimal exchange rate regime in an open economy vulnerable to self-fulfilling currency crises. Model results show that the optimal regime a country's government should adopt critically depends on the country's level of transparency. Furthermore, stabilisation properties are conditional on conjectural and time-varying factors such as market sentiments, which swing according to international investors' feelings. Thus, and paradoxically, in a weakly transparent economy, greater flexibility gives rise to a wide range of exchange-rate stability compared with hard-anchoring regimes. Key to this is the role of expectations coordination during stressful scenarios. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	South Korean economic miracle and its reflections in Los Angeles times and New York Times, 1975-1979The major characteristics of South Korea's economy had been set up during 1970s. The legacy of South Korea's economic development model was created during the last half of 1970s. The export-oriented economy became the major characteristics of South Korea's economy. Politically, the legacy of Park Chung-hee as a godfather figure developed the model led by a strong Presidential leadership. Economic initiatives introduced and carried out by a person not by the system. Socially, the sufficient distribution system of wealth was forced to be sacrificed for the economic development. The reports of Los Angeles Times and New York Times confirmed the facts. South Korea achieved its economic miracle. The legacy was established in the 1970s especially the late half of the decade. Through the reports of those two major American newspapers a new image of South Korea was created while they provided vivid American views on South Korea's economic development of the period.
2012	Financial Determinants of Corporate R&amp;D Investment in KoreaThis paper investigates the relationship between corporate investment in R&D and finance. By using panel data on Korean manufacturing firms between 1999 and 2008, we find that R&D investment is sensitive to fluctuations in internal cash flow and that debt is more important than equity in financing R&D expenditure. This empirical result supports the traditional theory of financing hierarchy. In relation to equity ownership, the empirical result shows that ownership concentration and foreign ownership positively affect R&D investment, but institutional ownership does not show any significant effect on investment. This study synthetically analyzes the relation between finance and investment by simultaneously considering corporate finance, equity ownership structure, macroeconomic environments and the institutional setting of Korea. ⓒ 2012 The Author. Asian Economic Journal ⓒ 2012 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Pty Ltd.
2012	Public Debt, Terms of Trade and Welfare: The Role of Capital Production Shares, External Balances, and Dynamic (In)efficiencyIn view of still large external imbalances across the world economy and dramatically risen public debts in major advanced economies, this paper reconsiders the relationship between public debt, the terms of trade and welfare in a two-good, two-country overlapping generations model with technological differences across countries. We find that the terms of trade effect of a public debt shock depends only on international differences in capital production shares and the dynamic (in)efficiency of the world economy. As in a model with similar capital production shares, domestic welfare rises and foreign welfare decreases when Home has a positive external balance and the Golden Rule holds. Under dynamic efficiency, welfare decreases in the debt-expanding, net foreign creditor country if she has a relatively smaller capital production share, and if the welfare effect through the accumulation channel is negative. In contrast, under dynamic inefficiency she can increase her welfare by debt expansion. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Japan's new economic diplomacy: Changing tactics or strategy?Japan's economic diplomacy has evolved significantly since the 1990s in response to the reconfiguration of regional and global power. This article places developments along a conceptual continuum and finds that, slowly but steadily, Japanese policies shift from an emphasis on commercial goals of economic diplomacy to include also a more outspoken element of power play. While tourism promotion may be considered a new part of economic diplomacy, long-time practices of trade and investment promotion, business advocacy, and development cooperation are revamped with a focus on the environmental and energy fields. The negotiation of trade agreements, which for long was highjacked by domestic politics, was given new impetus in 2010, while financial diplomacy-which seemed promising in the early 2000s-stalled. Finally, negative sanctioning is no longer a taboo, particularly in the relationship with North Korea. The appetite of the government and private sector to conform with Western countries remains limited, however, and the ambiguity between the old and the new suggests that we are witnessing a change in Japanese tactics rather than in strategy. ⓒ Institute for International Policy Studies.
2012	How significant is the role of reallocation to long-term growth?This article investigates the contribution of labour and capital reallocation from the farm to the nonfarm sector to Total Factor Productivity  Growth (TFPG). We find that if labour reallocation is hypothetically suppressed in economies experiencing rapid structural transformation, that is, South Korea and Taiwan, the annualized long-term TFPG rate can be reduced by more than 0.8 percentage points. Such an effect is significant. ⓒ 2012 Taylor & Francis.
2012	Beyond the BRICs: Alternative strategies of influence in the global politics of developmentThis introductory essay situates the subsequent special issue within a comparative framework that helps to unpack the new global politics of development. It argues that there is a set of countries beyond Brazil, Russia, India and China - often described as 'the BRICs' - that are emerging to a position of increased international prominence and which merit greater attention than they have hitherto received. Recent economic risers such as South Africa, South Korea, Turkey and Mexico are responding to their economic growth and seeking to secure greater influence within regional and global affairs. The analytical framework developed here distinguishes between four distinct strategies of international engagement: issue leading, opportunity seeking, region organising and region mobilising. The framework further suggests the need to focus on new global opportunities and pressures, as well as the specific interests and capacities of states when accounting for the adoption of a particular strategy of engagement. ⓒ 2012 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
2012	Korea's search for a global role between hard economic interests and soft powerSouth Korea has been a rising economic power for some decades. It exhibits several behavioral traits associated with rising powers such as issue leadership and opportunity seeking. Korea aims to be an issue leader in the field of development, although it seeks to secure the foundations for further sustained economic growth. In this article, we investigate Korea's global strategy since the 1990s, aiming to translate its economic clout into global political influence. The focus is placed on a critical evaluation of the approach under the current Lee Myung Bak administration since 2008. This article examines the domestic factors that have led Korea to pursue its strategies of securing influence, including most notably the legacy of the mercantilist developmental state. The article raises cautionary concerns about the capacity of Korea to adopt a foreign policy that moves beyond economic self-interest and plays an active role in the creation of global public goods. ⓒ 2012 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
2012	Editors' introduction transitional economies: Progress and pitfallsMany Asian countries are undergoing transition from centrally planned to market-oriented economies. The People's Republic of China (PRC) and Viet Nam have been going through this transition since the 1980s, while Mongolia and the former Soviet republics of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan began their transition in the 1990s with the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. On the other hand, Cambodia, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Myanmar, while they have begun reforms, are still in the early stages of transition. North Korea has probably made the least progress in this regard. This Special Issue on Transitional Economies aims to provide valuable insights for Asia's developing countries still in transition and to provide them with policy recommendations for avoiding the pitfalls of transition experienced in the 1990s. ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Inc.
2012	Regional and outward economic integration in South-East AsiaThe subject of this article tackles macroeconomic integration of the South-East Asian countries South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Economically, the analysis is based on notions of stochastic long-run convergence and business cycle synchrony in the Gross Domestic Products (GDPs). Relevant tests for cointegration and common serial correlation features reveal a high degree of coherence in long-run growth and medium-run fluctuations. This allows extracting a common stochastic growth trend and a common business cycle. Further analysis shows that both these components are subject to stronger influences from the US than from Japan. Convergence towards these matured economies conspicuously appears since the 1990s. ⓒ 2012 Taylor & Francis.
2012	A cliometric revolution in the economic history of Korea: A critical reviewCliometric approaches to the economic history of Korea have emerged as a distinctive trend from the mid-1990s. They have quickly made profound changes to our understanding of Korea's economic history from 1700 to 1945. The most remarkable include identifying the long-term decline of agricultural productivity from around 1800, the subsequent upswing in economic development from the late nineteenth century, and the continuing growth during the Japanese colonial era, 1910-45. We survey primarily the Korean language literature that reports the achievements of this cliometric movement and speculate about the future research agenda. ⓒ 2012 The Authors. Australian Economic History Review ⓒ 2012 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd and the Economic History Society of Australia and New Zealand.
2012	Oil and Small Open Macroeconomy: A case of KoreaThe world oil price has risen significantly since the late 1990s and reached a record high in 2008. The recent oil price hike raises concerns regarding the possible negative effects of the rising oil price on the economy as in the 1970s. We investigate the effects of the oil price hike on the Korean economy using a Bayesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DGSE) model. We explicitly model the small open economy nature of the Korean economy and its oil usage and estimate the constructed model within a unified Bayesian framework. We also examine possible changes in the effects of world oil shocks on the Korean economy using counterfactual simulations. We find the adverse effects of world oil shocks as well as their importance in Korean business cycles have diminished due to reductions in the relative usage of crude oil in the economy, while world oil shocks themselves have changed relatively little over time. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2012	Total factor productivity growth for 12 Asian economies: The past and the futureThis study examines the importance of TFP growth in the long-term past and future economic growth of 12 Asian economies. We analyze the pattern of past growth based on a calculation of TFP growth, investigate the TFP dynamics by estimations of a TFP growth model, decompose the factors affecting TFP growth, and offer long-term projections of TFP growth. The main findings are as follows. First, results suggest that the growth accounting paradigm has shifted in the recent decade toward a productivity-based growth paradigm. Second, the catch-up effect is the major source of TFP growth in past decades, and the human capital contribution to TFP growth is gradually rising in Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan in the most recent decade but is stagnated or weakened for other Asian economies. Third, the results project strong TFP growth for the two subperiods of 2010-2020 and 2020-2030 and thus suggest that the productivity-based growth will continue in the future long-term growth of the Asian economies. ⓒ 2012 Elsevier B.V.
2012	In Search of an Innovative State: The Development of the Biopharmaceutical Industry in Taiwan, South Korea and ChinaRecent developments in the biopharmaceutical industry in Taiwan, South Korea and China bear witness to the transformation of these states in nurturing an innovation-based industry. This article argues that the segmentation of the value chain of the biopharmaceutical industry has provided industrializing countries with a window of opportunity. These East Asian states have modified their former catching-up approaches by establishing a more effective institutional platform that can attract knowledge-creation players to the industry. Through case studies, the authors show that the Taiwan state's promotion of the biopharmaceutical industry has been based on an incremental approach; existing state policies have been modified to cope with the demands of the industry, which has resulted in the continuation of its SME-based industrial structure. The methods of the Korean state have been more radical, in that the policies that previously favoured the chaebols have gradually been reoriented toward the promotion of smaller, science-based firms that now co-exist alongside the chaebols. Finally, the Chinese state and local governments have sought to promote this innovation-based industry by building biotech parks. This approach has resulted in a boom in new science firms, which have become increasingly isolated from the flourishing domestic SOE-led market. ⓒ 2012 International Institute of Social Studies.
2012	Vertical Specialization and Export Performance in Electronics: A Cross-Country AnalysisGiven that global production fragmentation in electronics has proceeded with increasing intensity, this paper examines the role of vertical specialization (VS) for a country's exports in those goods. Our panel-econometric cross-country analysis, which covers 28 developed and developing economies and the period 2000-2008, provides evidence on the impact of fragmentation on a country's export level and export share. The findings indicate that a country's extent of VS plays a significant role and exerts a strong positive effect on a country's electronics exports. Thus, evidence is found that the participation in production sharing networks is an important determinant of export performance in electronics for developed and developing countries. Consequently, fragmentation should be controlled for in any analysis of export determinants in electronics or other goods where VS might be important. Our study implies that the cross-country specialization in electronics will increasingly be characterized by a fine intra-product specialization pattern. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	On the Drivers of FDI and Portfolio Investment: A Simultaneous Equations ApproachThis paper assesses the drivers of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and portfolio investment using simultaneous equations, which control for the correlation between the two components of private capital flows. The results show that in addition to infrastructure and financial development, capital control and economic growth significantly explain private capital flows in developing countries. The paper also highlights that the impact of financial development on portfolio investment is nonlinear. Indeed, lax monetary policy and excessive credit provision could weaken the financial system and significantly reduce portfolio investment flows in the long run. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Taking Real Wage Rigidities Seriously: Implications for Optimal Policy Design in a Currency UnionThis paper analyzes optimal monetary and fiscal policy in a monetary union from a union-wide perspective, using a multi-country New Keynesian business-cycle model with rigid real wages. Fiscal policy is implemented at the country level through decisions regarding government spending, while the monetary authority sets a common nominal interest rate. It is found that in the presence of country-specific shocks as well as symmetric shocks, there is a country-level trade-off between stabilizing inflation and the output gap. After a union-wide shock, the common monetary authority also faces a trade-off. If shocks are symmetric, the optimal union-wide policy requires that the common central bank conduct a countercyclical policy, allowing for more relative inflation volatility than the amount actually allowed by the ECB. The role of policies is reversed at the domestic level, where the government stabilizes the economy via a countercyclical policy, regardless of whether shocks are symmetric. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2012	Transitioning from fast-follower to innovator: The institutional foundations of the Korean telecommunications sectorIn a world of rapid technological change and increasing interdependence between national and global networks, what institutions are necessary to facilitate the execution of a developmental project? An increasingly popular view expects the East Asian model of development to be ill-equipped to deal with the challenges involved in the information economy while the institutions of a 'developmental network state' are argued to be of greater utility. This paper tests this view in light of a dramatic shift in the business strategy of Korean firms in the telecommunications sector in the early years of the twenty-first century. I argue that core features of the Korean model have been recombined in creative and unanticipated ways to meet the twin challenges of economic openness and knowledge-based industrialisation. The argument is developed through an examination of the Korean government's promotion of a novel Korean-developed mobile broadcasting standard. I identify and trace the emergence of the institutional conditions which facilitated the rise of new and innovative forms of state-industry collaboration. The findings have implications for two outstanding issues in the developmental state literature: the role of former developmental states after liberalisation and the type of institutions useful beyond the catch-up process. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	Economic development, democracy and citizenship politics in South Korea: The predicament of developmental citizenshipThe purpose of this article is to analyze the complex relationships among economic development, democracy, and citizenship as they have been manifested in the South Korean context since the late 1980s. It begins by examining the structural relationship between economic development and political democratization in South Korea with an analytical focus on the substantive function of democratic politics in delivering various citizenship rights. Then, the citizenship ramifications of the national economic crisis of 1997-1998 are discussed with a particular focus on the predominant bijeonggyujik (nonregular position) regime of employment. This is followed by an account of the divergence between international and domestic perceptions on the current status of South Koreans' citizenship rights and a discussion of the political historical background to South Koreans' regression to developmentalism. Relatedly, the widespread symptoms of South Koreans' withdrawal from economic, familial, and even personal life are illustrated as evidence of the critically limited viability of the developmentally framed citizenship to which South Koreans habitually cling even in the neoliberal era. ⓒ 2012 Copyright Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	Structural Change In A Small Open Economy: An Application To South KoreaThis paper develops a dynamic general equilibrium model and studies structural change in a small open economy with two tradable sectors, agriculture and manufacturing, and a non-tradable sector, services. In addition to obtaining results for a falling employment share of agriculture and a rising share of services, we demonstrate analytically the hump-shaped share of manufacturing by identifying two countervailing effects: the productivity effect and the Balassa-Samuelson effect. The first effect, arising from differential rates of productivity growth among sectors, increases the share of manufacturing; the second effect, together with low rates of substitution between products, enhances the service sector and eventually draws labour from the manufacturing sector. At the aggregate level, however, the economy maintains a constant rate of growth. We calibrate the model with data from South Korea and find that the calibration fits the country's historical path of structural change. ⓒ 2012 The Authors. Pacific Economic Review ⓒ 2012 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2012	The contributions of the health decommodification typologies to the study of the East Asian Welfare regimeSince Esping-Andersen presented the three worlds of welfare typology thesis, the study of the classification of welfare regimes has been dominated by his work and the debates surrounding it. This article is concerned with two important responses to his work. The first response is the development of welfare typologies based on the principle of decommodification. The second response is the concern that East Asian countries are underrepresented in the 18 members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) studied by Esping-Andersen. As a result, there are calls for expanding the scope of the studies on the classification of welfare regimes to those in East Asia. This article makes contributions to these two responses by presenting two analytical tasks. The first task is to develop two health decommodification typologies based on two different methods (cluster analysis and Esping-Andersen's index-based regime construction). Both of them cover the 18 OECD members studied by Esping-Andersen and four tiger economies (Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore). The second task is to demonstrate that the two health decommodification typologies provide important information for the debate on the existence of two essential preconditions for the development of an all-encompassing East Asian welfare regime, namely the existence of significant differences in the welfare systems between the East Asian countries and the 18 OECD countries studied by Esping-Andersen (1990) and the existence of significant similarities in the welfare systems between East Asian countries. ⓒ 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2012	An econometric approach to identify determinants of cooperation for innovation among firmsR&D cooperation has received great attention among industrialists, decision-makers and researchers. This article introduces an econometric approach for identifying the factors that lead firms to cooperate in order to achieve innovation. The determining factors were defined according to empirical findings from the Korean Innovation Survey (KIS) 2005, captured in a multivariate probit regression model. The aim is to subsidize further research by applying agent-based modelling to simulate innovation networks in the Korean manufacturing sector. ⓒ 2012 Taylor & Francis.
2012	Fiscal policy and the current account new evidence from four East Asian CountriesThe long-run relation and short-run dynamics of fiscal policy and current account is examined using time-series data on four East Asian economies South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. The purpose of the study is to test the validity of two alternative views on budget deficits - the Ricardian and Keynesian theories. According to Ricardians, given the path government spending, a rise in budget deficits has no effect of national savings, investment and the current account. In contrast, Keynesian theory suggests that such tax cuts reduce national savings and result in current account deficits. Empirical results based on cointegration model and Error Correction Model (ECM) over 1975-2008 are broadly consistent with the Ricardian view. ⓒ 2012 Taylor & Francis.
2012	Financialization and the slowdown in Korean firms' R&amp;D investmentThis study investigates the effects of financialization on research and development  investment by nonfinancial corporations (NFCs) in Korea from 1994 to 2009. The results indicate that increased dividend payments and stock buybacks impeded R&D investment by reducing internal funds and planning horizons. In addition, increased financial investment and profit opportunities crowded out R&D investment by influencing managers' incentives. Further, estimation results obtained by dividing the sample period into before and after the 199798 Asian financial crisis (AFC) indicate that the progress of financialization had a negative effect on R&D investment only after the AFC. ⓒ 2012 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2012	Lessons from the 1997 and the 2008 crises in the republic of KoreaThe economy of the Republic of Korea was hit harder than anticipated by the global financial crisis. In the first phase, large capital outflows led to a severe liquidity strain in the foreign exchange market resulting in a rapid depreciation of the exchange rate. Then, in the second phase, the contraction of global demand led to a collapse of exports and a sharp decline in economic activity, raising concerns about a full-fledged financial crisis in the country. This paper describes how the global financial crisis spilled over into the Korean economy and how the government responded to the financial turmoil. It also provides the background and rationale for the Korean government's decisions to adopt specific policy measures. Based on Korean experiences during the 1997 and the 2008 crises, this paper documents the lessons learned and identifies several important policy issues that might have regional implications for Asia.
2012	China as an 'Emerging biotech power'Asia's dramatic entry on to the global biotech scene has not gone unnoticed by commentators and social scientists. Countries like China, India, South Korea and Singapore have been identified as 'emerging biotech powers'. Consequently scholars have begun examining the particularities of how biotechnologies (eg stem cell science, genetic testing and reproductive medicine) have come to be taken up and grounded in a variety of cultural, legal and socioeconomic contexts. They have also examined how governments, scientists, clinicians and others have been engaged in efforts to build up endogenous biotech sectors as a part of nation-building strategies. In this article, rather than attempting to answer questions of what makes biotechnology particularly Asian, I will instead investigate how demarcations and boundaries are mooted in global negotiations of what constitutes 'good' biotechnology. The analysis is based on a collaborative project between Chinese and European scientists and experts on the ethical governance of biomedical and biological research. I show how an underlying condition for the negotiations that took place within this collaboration was the proposition that difference matters when it comes to developing, organising, carrying out and overseeing biotechnological research in a particular country. ⓒ 2012 Southseries Inc.
2012	Exports, imports and economic growth in South Korea and Japan: A tale of two economiesThis article investigates the relationship between exports, imports and economic growth for South Korea and Japan by constructing a Vector Autoregression (VAR) model. Causality is examined between real Gross Domestic Product (GDP), real exports and real imports. Several principal results emerge from the empirical work. First, the three variables are cointegrated for both countries, implying that a long run steady state exists. Second, there is evidence of bidirectional causality between imports and economic growth for both countries. Finally, Japan seems to experience export-led growth, while GDP growth in South Korea has a negative effect on export growth. These contrasting findings could result from export goods in Japan exhibiting greater nonprice competitive aspects, although their success fails to trigger a virtuous circle since growth fails to lead to increased exports, while for South Korea, output growth leads to a decrease in export growth suggesting a strong domestic market. ⓒ 2011 Taylor and Francis Group, LLC.
2012	Institutional complementarity between corporate governance and Corporate Social Responsibility: A comparative institutional analysis of three capitalismsThe question of why and how firms' approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) differs across countries is one that can only be adequately addressed by giving a strong theoretical underpinning to research on comparative CSR. To this end, drawing on institutional theory and the institutionalist arguments of the comparative capitalism literature, we identify the mechanism by which national institutional arrangements influence CSR. We do this by (a) separating CSR from corporate governance, and identifying corporate governance as the missing link between the broader institutional arrangements that govern finance and labour and CSR, and (b) using the concept of institutional complementarity (a process of mutual reinforcement that enhances the value of both institutions) to specify the nature of the relationship between corporate governance and CSR. We refer to three models of capitalism-liberal market economies (LMEs, e.g. the USA and the UK), coordinated market economies (CMEs, e.g. Germany and Japan) and state-led market economies (SLMEs, e.g. France and South Korea)-as empirical sites for exploration of these ideas. We argue that CSR complements corporate governance systems by a logic of similarity (a link based on similar properties) and that, as change in the broader institutional arrangements and corporate governance occurs, CSR reflects and facilities this change. ⓒ The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press and the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics. All rights reserved.
2012	The spirits of corporate social responsibility: Senior executive perceptions of the role of the firm in society in Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea and the USAWe report our findings on cross-societal variations in values concerning Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) held by senior executives from five economies. We find that executives in all five economies are concerned with the roles of their firms in society, with those in Japan most so and those in Hong Kong least so. However, executives in each context have different conceptualizations of how firms contribute to society. The data suggest variation along three dimensions: implicit versus explicit CSR, stakeholder-oriented versus production-oriented CSR within implicit CSR and different main stakeholders within stakeholder-oriented CSR. We discuss the implications of these findings for future research on CSR and for comparative business systems. ⓒ The Author 2011. Published by Oxford University Press and the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics. All rights reserved.
2012	Redistributive effects of bus rapid transit (BRT) on development patterns and property values in Seoul, KoreaThis study investigates the redistributive effects of Seoul's bus rapid transit (BRT) system on development patterns and property values using an urban simulation model. The Seoul Metropolitan Integrated Urban Model (SMIUM) combines the Seoul metropolitan input-output model with random utility-based location choice models and endogenous real estate markets.The major findings of this study can be highlighted as follows. First, Seoul's BRT contributes to increased development density in urban centers, acting as a centripetal force to attract firms from the suburbs into urban cores and supporting arguments for Smart Growth proponents. Second, unlike its redistributive effects on nonresidential activities, the BRT has a limited effect on the redistribution of residential activities, implying that residential locations are less sensitive to accessibility improvements made by the BRT than are nonresidential locations. Third, reflecting the transferred space demands from the suburbs to the urban cores, the CBD reaps the highest property value gains, while all of the outer ring zones suffer from reduced property values. ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Ltd.
2011	Monetary policy reaction function and sterilization of capital inflows: An analysis of Asian countriesThe study was mainly focused on estimation of monetary policy reaction function and degree of sterilization for the sample comprising of Pakistan, Korea, Philippines and Japan by using quarterly data ranging from 1980-1 to 2007-2. The study has used Johansen multivariate co integration technique. We conclude that over the period of study all the central banks of these countries have conducted a strong sterilization policy, but not fully sterilized the capital inflow. These countries have used the sterilization policy, though it is different in magnitude for different countries. Results show that in all the economies whether they are agriculture or non-agriculture they sterilized their capital inflows in the long run. Short run adjustment towards the long run equilibrium shows high value of adjustment for Korea and Philippines while for Pakistan its coefficient shows very little adjustment. On the other hand Korea and Philippines has shown comprehensive adjustment policies towards long term adjustment.
2011	Ownership structure and export performance: Firm-level evidence from the Republic of KoreaThe central objective of our paper is to empirically examine the relationship between the ownership structure of firms and their export performance. To do so, we use data from the Republic of Korea, a classic example of successful export-oriented industrialization. While a large and growing empirical literature investigates the relationship between the ownership structure and overall performance of firms, there are almost no studies that delve into the issue of whether the concentration of ownership has a positive or negative effect on export performance. The primary contribution of our study is to help remedy this serious gap in the empirical literature on ownership and performance. Our empirical results indicate that Korean firms with more concentrated ownership are more likely to be exporters, and to export more. ⓒ 2011 by Asian Development Bank.
2011	Global value chains, industry structure, and technology upgrading of local firms: The personal computer industry in Korea and Taiwan during the 1980sThis article argues that the modular value chains of the personal computer (PC) industry provide similar windows of opportunity to Korean and Taiwanese firms, however, the local firms have incorporated foreign technology and markets in different ways, and this has resulted in the development of distinctive innovation patterns in Korea and Taiwan. The structural coupling argument emphasizes the right strategies linking foreign technology with domestic conditions, given the governance structure of the industry. The paper compares the processes of different strategic coupling in the Korean and Taiwanese PC industries during the 1980s, individual but overlapping technology licences of big Korean firms versus joint licences by the public research institutes in Taiwan, original equipment manufacturing (OEM) as the momentum for the vertical integration within firms in Korea versus those for the expansion of subcontracting network in Taiwan, and overseas R&D investment on an individual firm basis in Korea versus co-funding and joint ventures in Taiwan. The Korean and Taiwanese cases have implications for other developing countries. The chances of successful technology upgrading are high when domestic assets such as industry structure, government policy and human resources are properly combined with the strategic needs of global lead firms in the industry. It is important for firms and governments in developing countries to find suitable ways of strategic coupling based on a good understanding of the global governance structure of the industry, as well as their domestic advantages. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2011	Development of biotechnology clusters: The case of Daedeok Science Town, KoreaThe development of biotechnology is particularly challenging to developing countries that must transform their manufacturing-based economies to knowledge-based ones despite the high development risk, lengthy development times, and technological dominance of a few developed countries. Some are implementing clusters to develop the biotechnology industry. In this study, we examined the emergence of the biotechnology cluster in Daedeok Science Town, Korea, through a social network analysis of collaborations in innovation; in addition, we examine the association of economic performance and the network properties of small start-ups in the Daedeok cluster. We conclude the report with policy implications for countries with an economic agenda to develop the biotechnology industry. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2011	An aristotelian-communitarian reading of South Korea's saemaul undong and South Korean society: Originarity &amp; the importance of language vis-a-vis sub-Saharan Africa and South AfricaIn this essay it is posited that an Aristotelian reading of Saemaul Undong - a hugely successful South Korean rural development scheme implemented in the 1970s which led to the near eradication of rural poverty - can provide an understanding of the dynamics that were involved in this scheme and how these dynamics allowed for the transformation of feelings of hopelessness and indifference within the rural population of South Korea into feelings which were conducive to rural development. It is argued that Saemaul Undong can be, to some extent, equated with the Polis (city-state) as understood by Aristotle and through this equation the character-building as well as community-building properties of Saemaul Undong can be understood. It is argued that sub-Saharan Africa could potentially benefit from the adoption of something akin to Saemaul Undong, both in the micro sense of the transformation of both individual and communal feelings and the capacity for the construction of a collective identity (vital in a largely heterogeneous region) inherent within Saemaul Undong, as well as the skills acquired by those involved through participation in this process, and in the macro sense of the eradication of rural poverty. From this foundation an attempt will be made to incorporate the notion of Originarity, as formulated by Leopold Peeters, as well as the notion that humans externalise their existence by means of language. Moreover, South Korean society and cinema will also be investigated within the context of the aforementioned.
2011	American views on south korea's economic development in los angeles times and new york times, 1970-1974The first half of 1970s was one of the crucial periods to understand the South Korea's economic success. South Korea achieved great economic success as President Park Chung-hee concentrated his effort to maintain economic development to consolidate his dictatorial power as well as to overcome North Korean threats. Los Angeles Times and New York Times dealt with the issues on the South Korea's economy with considerable amount of reports. To do so, they helped to provide general views of Americans on South Korea's economy of the time. According to them, South Korea's economic development was comparatively successful during this period. Some of them even highly praised the economic success of this country. However, the lack of democracy made them to believe that South Korea's economic success was fragile. They failed to understand the South Korean people's will and desperation to survive after the long years of poverty. Still, the analyses and advices presented in the reports were very valuable to see South Korea's economic structure and problem. The reports of both American major newspapers contributed to develop the American views on South Korea and its economic development of the period.
2011	Global and Regional Yield Curve Dynamics and Interactions: The Case of Some Asian CountriesSince the Asian financial crisis in 1997-98, Asian countries have made continuous efforts to promote monetary and financial cooperation for developing regionally well-established bond markets. This paper empirically evaluates the developments of bond markets in the East-Asia region based on the recently developed empirical methodology of dynamic cross-country bond yield interactions. To this end, we use a two-step state space model to examine the existence of the global and regional factor and analyze the effect of both factors on four Asian countries' yield curves. We find that both global and regional factors play an important role in explaining these countries' yield factors, although the regional factor appears to have a smaller role than the global factor and that this result seems to be robust to different subsamples. We interpret this result as evidence on the existence of the regional commonality and on endeavors toward Asian bond markets. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2011	What Drives Different Types of Capital Flows and their Volatilities in Developing Asia?Understanding the determinants of capital inflows is essential to designing an effective policy framework to manage volatile capital flows and their disruptive potential. This paper aims to identify factors that explain the size and volatility of various types of capital flows to developing Asia, vis-a-vis other emerging market economies. The estimates for a panel dataset show that per capita income growth, trade openness, and change in stock market capitalization are important determinants of capital inflows to developing Asia. Trade openness increases the volatility of all types of capital inflows; while change in stock market capitalization, global liquidity growth and institutional quality lowers the volatility. A regional factor plays an important role in determining the size and volatility of capital inflows in emerging Europe and emerging Latin America, suggesting that regional economic cooperation and policy coordination may be an important element in designing a policy framework to manage capital inflows. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Comments on 'Monetary Policy in Economic Crises: A Simple Model of Policy with External Financial Constraints' by Devereux and PoonThe recent financial crises have generated interest in the design of optimal monetary policy rules not only for the developed economies, but also for the emerging economies. In particular, many economists have argued that economic models should take financial market frictions more seriously to analyze the propagation of external shocks and to design the optimal monetary policy rules at normal times as well as at economic crisis. Devereux and Poon address this issue by employing a tractable and simple small open economy model. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Monetary Policy in Economic Crises: A Simple Model of Policy with External Financial ConstraintsThe experience of economic crises in emerging market economies suggests that the operation of monetary policy in these economies is severely limited by the presence of financial constraints. This is seen in the tendency to follow contractionary monetary policy during crises, and the observation that these countries pursue much more stable exchange rates than do high income advanced economies, despite having a more volatile external environment. This paper analyzes the use of monetary policy in an open economy in which exchange rate sensitive collateral constraints may bind in some states of the world. The appeal of the model is that it allows for a complete analytical description of the effects of collateral constraints, and admits a full characterization of welfare-maximizing monetary policy rules. The model can explain two empirical features of emerging market monetary policy described above - in particular, that optimal monetary policy may be pro-cyclical under binding collateral constraints, and an economy with large external shocks may favor a fixed exchange rate, even though flexible exchange rates are preferred when external shocks are smaller. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Shaping Asia's Institutional Architecture for Economic and Financial Integration: Opinion Leaders' ViewsAsian economic regionalism has emerged from a bottom-up process, driven by market forces in the absence of a grand plan for regional integration. While the financial crisis of 1997/98 triggered new regional cooperation initiatives, more recently several Asian political leaders have formulated proposals for the creation of a regional economic community, suggesting the possible start of a top-down approach. Based on the results of a survey of Asia's opinion leaders conducted by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 2010, this paper discusses how Asia's institutional architecture for economic and financial integration is taking shape, suggesting the need to strengthen existing institutions that promote Asian regionalism and to create new ones. While the focus of the paper is on monetary and financial integration, the analysis also covers other integration pillars such as trade and investment, connectivity and infrastructure, and regional public goods. It suggests the need to create new institutions in support of Asian regionalism and to use a broad perspective in moving towards the formation of a region-wide economic community based on strong political commitment and grassroots participation. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Effectiveness of Social Welfare Programmes in East Asia: A Case Study of TaiwanUsing the 2008 Family Income and Expenditure Survey, this study examined the effectiveness of social welfare programmes in Taiwan. The empirical evidence shows that most types of social welfare spending were limited in 2008. However, the social welfare programmes that were in place substantially reduced income inequality in Taiwan. Using the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) poverty threshold, the results reveal that 14 per cent of the sample's families were poor in terms of market income, but this figure decreased to 7 per cent after government intervention. Income inequality in Taiwan was similar to that of other East Asian countries such as Japan and South Korea, but Taiwan spent much less money on social welfare programmes than OECD countries, and therefore Taiwan's reduction of poverty was much lower as well. ⓒ 2011 Blackwell Publishing Ltd..
2011	Monetary autonomy in selected Asian economies: The role of international reservesWith the increased financial integration of Asian countries, monetary policy takes on the additional role of maintaining the stability of the financial system along with the traditional objectives of promoting growth and employment with price stability. Given the importance and relevance of monetary policy in Asian countries, we examine monetary autonomy and its interaction with financial integration, currency regimes and international reserves for the past two decades in the following Asian countries: Thailand, Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, and India. The empirical analysis reveals two significant and interesting findings that have policy implications. First, Thailand, Korea and Indonesia, countries that have moved towards a floating currency regime, experienced simultaneous declines in the sensitivity of their interest rates (thereby increasing monetary autonomy), while India continues to increase the sensitivity of its interest rates with a pegged exchange rate and increased financial integration. Second, in all of the studied economies, the accumulation of international reserves has contributed, to some extent, to the retention of monetary autonomy in terms of preventing the sensitivity of the interest rates from rising. We speculate that the accumulation of reserves plays the role of an anchor for monetary autonomy in emerging market economies facing a "fear of floating" ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Inc..
2011	Reforms of Korea's trade adjustment assistance program for its bilateral free trade agreements with the European Union and the United StatesThe Korean government introduced the trade adjustment assistance (TAA) program to facilitate structural adjustment under the implementation of its free trade agreements (FTAs). One big problem with the TAA program is that its criterion for eligibility for TAA support requires a 25 percent decrease in sales volume, and this does not reflect firms' business realities. The TAA program should be reformed to reflect that the TAA is a quid pro quo for the implementation of FTAs with large economies such as the United States and the EU. ⓒ 2011.
2011	The Korean economic adjustment to the world financial crisisThe global financial crisis hit the Korean economy in two ways. First, the sudden reversal of capital flow dried up the domestic and international liquidity. Second, the global contraction of demand reduced Korea's export by over 40 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008. Consequently, the Korean currency depreciated sharply and the economic growth rate fell drastically. Even though Korea could not prevent the 2008 crisis, it was the first OECD country to escape the negative economic growth zone, possibly because of three reasons. First, Korea might have had better initial conditions than other economies thanks to the reform measures after the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis. Second, the Korean government has had significant experience in dealing with crises. Third, Korea had an international network of cooperation to establish swap arrangements of US$ 90 billion to stabilize foreign exchange market. Even though the Korean economy has become more resilient to future financial crises by learning from the crisis in 1997, the small open economy still has limited capacity to stabilize the financial market. Korea now faces a new issue, which is to learn from the global crisis on how to stabilize the foreign exchange market. ⓒ 2011.
2011	Cluster Life Cycles: The Case of the Shipbuilding Industry Cluster in South KoreaShin D.-H. and Hassink R. Cluster life cycles: the case of the shipbuilding industry cluster in South Korea, Regional Studies. Although South Korean academics and policy-makers have applied industrial districts, regional innovation systems and clusters both to study and promote regional economic development, these concepts have little power to explain the changing economic landscape over time. This paper tackles this question with the help of the concept of cluster life cycle and shipbuilding as a case. It concludes that the cluster life cycle concept is useful for analysing and explaining spatial industrial dynamics in Korea, but the distinction between industry life cycle and cluster life cycle is not very relevant in the case of shipbuilding. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Regional Studies Association.
2011	The Money Trail: Ranking Donor Transparency in Foreign AidTransparency of aid activity is being recognized to be one of the key areas whereby aid effectiveness can be improved. In this paper, we propose an index to measure and rank donors on the transparency of their aid activities. The Transparency Index rates 31 bilateral and multilateral donor agencies on six measures of transparency. We find that being a member of the IATI is a powerful signal of a donor being more transparent across most other dimensions as well. We find no relationship between transparency and donor aid volumes. Overall IDA and Australia are identified as the most transparent donors, while Korea and IDB Special Fund are the least transparent. ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Ltd.
2011	The impact of low cost carriers on Korean Island tourismGiven the mixed findings of extant research on the impact of low-cost carriers (hereafter LCC) on aviation markets (with some studies showing stimulation of new demand, other studies showing LCCs encroaching on the turf of full-service carriers), the emergence of LCCs in Korea raised an interesting question as to whether or not they actually contribute to overall growth in domestic air traffic. The literature has paid limited attention to this issue so far. Employing a multivariate regression analysis with monthly data from 2000 to 2009, the impact of LCCs on tourism demand to a popular destination in Korea, Jeju Island, is examined, focusing on two specific questions: Have LCCs generated new tourism demand and brought more tourism revenue into the island's economy? Have LCCs mitigated tourism seasonality on the island? Controlling for the effects of a number of factors, results showed that LCCs have generated new demand in addition to existing tourist flows to the island. Korean LCCs accounted for 35% of total passengers in 2009, which indicates an average growth rate of 161.7% over the last 4. years, compared to a -0.3% growth rate for all full-service carriers in Korea. However, LCCs seem to have had little impact on reducing seasonal fluctuations in passenger traffic to Jeju Island. The findings of this study will be of interest to researchers, policy makers, and a variety of stakeholders in the tourism industry interested in the relationship between no-frills airlines and island economies. ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Ltd.
2011	The informal economy and bribery in North KoreaThis paper uses the data of 227 North Korean refugees who have settled in South Korea to investigate the relationship between working in the informal economy (market component of theeconomy) and bribe-giving, and between bribe-giving and the umber of hours worked in the formal sector (planned component of the economy). The first relationship is positive, and the second relationship is negative. These results imply that widespread informal economy activities in North Korea have been undermining the socialist regime through bribery. ⓒ 2011.
2011	Addressing the urban housing problem: Does subsidizing homeownership best meet the housing needs of urban squatter householdsThis paper uses the data of 227 North Korean refugees who have settled in South Korea to investigate the relationship between working in the informal economy (market component of theeconomy) and bribe-giving, and between bribe-giving and the umber of hours worked in the formal sector (planned component of the economy). The first relationship is positive, and the second relationship is negative. These results imply that widespread informal economy activities in North Korea have been undermining the socialist regime through bribery.
2011	Stock market reaction to oil price shocks: A comparison between an oil-exporting economy and an oil-importing economyIn this study, we assess the responses of aggregate stock returns and their volatility in the face of oil price shocks in the Norwegian and Korean markets. Both Norway and Korea are small open economies; the former exports oil, and the latter imports it. We determine herein that the responses of aggregate stock returns and volatility differ substantially, depending on the underlying cause of the oil price rise and depending on whether an economy exports or imports oil. Additionally, a larger portion of stock return variations in small open economies can be explained by the world crude oil market as opposed to the US market; this implies that the small open economies have more oil-dependent technology and limited access to the global financial market. Finally, the results of our analysis of the conditional covariance measure indicate that the responses of stock returns and volatility are not based on a risk-return tradeoff relationship.
2011	The role of money in the dynamic is modelAs recently industrialized central banks conducted interest rate targeting, the usefulness of information of monetary aggregates for real economy has been discussed actively with focusing on the role of money in the IS model. This paper examines using Korean quarterly data of 1991:Q1 - 2010:Q2 the role of money in the backward-looking and forward-looking dynamic IS models. The money is not statistically significant in both IS models while the real interest rate is. However, in the subsample analysis where the sample is divided into pre- and post- Korea financial crisis to incorporate the possibility of structural break around Korea financial crisis, the money seems to have played an important role in the pre-crisis period whereas the money appears not to have been statistically significant in the post-crisis period but the real interest rate has been statistically significant in the post-crisis period. These results imply that the money provided important information for the IS model before the inflation targeting but since the inflation targeting in 1998, the Bank of Korea targets interest rate explicitly and thus, the usefulness of monetary aggregates in the IS model seems to disappear as monetary aggregates are determined endogenously.
2011	Implementing sustainable development in the construction industry: Constructors' perspectives in the US and KoreaConcern about the devastating impacts of on-site construction processes on the environment (e.g., consumption of energy and materials, generation of waste and dust, and pollution of air and water) has led to a heightened awareness of the need for sustainable construction practices. Constructors in the construction industry in the US and Korea were surveyed on their level of awareness of sustainable construction measures that could be implemented during the actual construction phase, and on their level of preparedness to implement such measures. The results of the survey indicate a fairly high level of awareness of and preparedness for sustainable construction and a positive outlook for the future of sustainable construction in both countries. The results of this study indicate that constructors should have more responsibilities and get involved at an earlier stage of a construction project - during the design phase - in order to exploit their knowledge. ⓒ 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd. and ERP Environment.
2011	Currency regime and monetary autonomy. Empirical evidence using recent and global data from 1990 to 2007This paper analyzes the exchange rate regimes from the perspective of monetary independence. To be specific, using recent and global data, we examine the sensitivity of domestic interest rates to the international interest rate, by conducting co-integration tests and by estimating the adjustment speeds through error-correction model, for different de facto currency regimes and for different types of capital markets. Our estimation results basically support the traditional views of 'impossible trinity', as far as the cases with open capital markets are concerned. The floating regime shows the less sensitivity of domestic interest rates to the international interest rate than the fixed regime does, which implies some capacity for domestic monetary autonomy under the floating regime. The cases with closed capital markets, on the other hand, include the cases showing high sensitivity of interest rates in some emerging market economies, which might imply the 'fear of floating' hypothesis. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	On the economic and fiscal effects of investments in road infrastructures in portugalThe objective of this paper is to investigate the economic and fiscal impact of road infrastructure investment in Portugal, focusing on the effects for each administrative region of both local investments and investments in other regions. We estimate VAR models for the national economy as well as for each of the five regions, and using the associated impulse-response functions we find that investment in road infrastructures has been a powerful instrument to increase private investment, to create new permanent jobs and to promote long-term growth in all regions. More importantly, investment in road infrastructure, both at the aggregate level and for each one of the five regions, generates fiscal effects that largely exceed the initial investment itself. Accordingly, there is no trade-off in the long-term between the potentially positive economic effects and the potentially negative budgetary effects of such investments, i.e., both economic and budgetary effects are positive. As a corollary, policies that would reduce current road investment as a response to the current budgetary concerns will result in lower long-term growth as well as worse budgetary conditions in the future. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Domestic unionization and the political economy of strategic export policyThis paper examines the effect of lobbying by a labor union and its parent firm on the argument for strategic export policy in a third market-unionized duopoly. The lobbying-induced export policy frequently deteriorates domestic welfare as compared with free trade. It is true that the politically-determined export policy can improve domestic welfare if the union's bargaining power is strong and the domestic government's responsiveness to political contributions is weak. However, even if the conditions are met, implementing the lobbying-induced export policy will not enhance domestic welfare more than improving labor-management relations. Moreover, the improvement of their relations will be hampered by the opportunity of their lobbying. These results indicate that strategic export policy toward a unionized duopoly should be restrained in light of political economy. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Parental quality investment, child effort, and human capital accumulationThis paper develops a theoretical model that explores the effects of child investment on human capital accumulation. Household investment effects are measured as a function of quality of investment choices, time allocation, child effort, and spillover effects. The theory dynamics are derived by employing a two-period OLG model. The model dynamics reveal the existence of multiple steady states of quality investment and child human capital accumulation under two stages of development. These dynamics show why poor households are often unable to escape poverty. Empirically, the theory and dynamics are tested with United States data. The data suggest that for poor households, income and parental human capital have no significant effect on child performance at school. Child effort and parental quality investment are shown to be significant determinants of child performance at school across household types. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Trade-induced industrialization and economic growthBased on a modified Heckscher-Ohlin model of Deardorff and Park (2010), this paper develops a dynamic model of trade-induced industrialization and economic growth. It shows that a developing country may grow out of its autarky steady state with no industrialization into a new steady state with full industrialization by opening to trade with a large industrialized country, exporting the labor-intensive intermediate input in exchange for the capital-intensive intermediate input for the modern good. Even when the developing country is on its path toward complete industrialization under autarky, free trade may induce it to grow faster with its return to capital being raised and sustained at a level that is higher than its autarky level during its industrialization process. Once it completes its industrialization process by having all of its resources in the modern sector, then diminishing returns to capital come back to accompany further capital accumulation, slowing down the growth of the economy. This trade-induced industrialization and economic growth, having an expansion of international trade both in its absolute value and in its ratio to the size of the developing country, correspond well with the dynamic profiles of East Asian Miracle countries' economic growth based on their export-oriented industrialization strategy. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Flawed mediation and a compelling mission: Chinese diplomacy in the six-party talks to denuclearise North KoreaThis paper examines China's role in the Six-Party Talks, a multilateral initiative with the aim of denuclearising North Korea. As North Korea's behaviour has become increasingly provocative, evidenced by the Cheonan and Yeonpyeong Incidents and the newly unveiled uranium enrichment plant at Yeonbyon, China's indecision in dealing with the deteriorating situation has dramatically undermined Beijing's ability to continue successfully to play the leading mediator role. Yet if China fails to take decisive action now, the consequences could be dire. Further deterioration in North Korea's behaviour could trigger a nuclear arms race, severely hamper regional economic development and even create a geopolitical split in East Asia, leading to a confrontation between the US, South Korea and Japan acting together on one side, and China, Russia and North Korea aligned on the other. The factors that have prevented China from making further progress in the diplomatic process are many and various and this paper will reveal the complexity of the North Korean issue for China. Foreign academics and policy makers have tended to attribute China's indecision over North Korea to China putting its own security interests first. But this is far too simplistic a picture of the complex relationship that China has with North Korea. There are a host of factors at work that need to be taken into account to understand the present impasse in the diplomatic process. These factors include China's emotional ties to North Korea and empathy with its position as the weakest party in the Talks, the conflicting attitudes within the Chinese government itself towards the North, and the competing interests and lack of trust between the different stakeholders. It seems that for the foreseeable future, the North Korean issue will continue to plague Chinese foreign policy until all the parties involved act as a collaborative body to reach a consensus on how to resolve the situation. ⓒ 2011 Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
2011	The Korean textile industry: Still competitive, after all these years?Although a vital part of the economy, the Korean textile industry has been challenged by the recent reduction of international trade barriers, particularly as this industry was fully integrated into General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) in 2005. The textile industries in Japan and many other countries have also faced difficulties. This study examines future prospects for the Korean industry by investigating the presence of economies of scale and relationships among the inputs of domestic capital, labour and intermediate goods, as well as foreign intermediate goods. The findings are consistent with constant returns to scale and a substitutes relationship among all input pairs except for domestic capital and foreign intermediate goods. Thus, there appear to be no further cost reductions available through increased output and economies of scale. However, some reduction in industry output may not result in increased unit costs either. A reduction in the price of foreign intermediate goods will not only increase the demand for domestic capital, but also, at least in the short run, add stress to the industry as it decreases the demand for domestic labour and domestic intermediate goods. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Bridging troubled worlds? An analysis of the ethical case for South Korean aidThis article critically assesses an ethical case of emerging donors via a case study of South Korea's official development assistance. In so doing, the article sets out two tasks: (i) overcoming the hitherto reductionist reading of emerging donors that uses the established normative framework as a reference point and (ii) addressing a relatively understudied topic of emerging donors within the mainstream aid-ethics debates. To attend to these analytical gaps, the article focuses on two things. First, the case study is discussed within Korea's own historical and institutional context to highlight the latter's significant influence on the way its ethical case for aid provision is presented. Second, this study focuses on the tensions between the stated ethical rhetoric and reality. This study finds that the ethical case is not only an important rationale for Korea's donorship but also strategic for its efforts to achieve the comparative advantage in the increasingly competitive international aid market to advance its national interests. ⓒ 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2011	Economic benefits of globalization: The impact of entry to the WTO on China's growthA panel data method is used to evaluate the impact of China's accession to the WTO. Time-series data for China, Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea, Japan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, the USA and Taiwan are used to construct the growth path that what would have been followed had there been no entry by China to the WTO. We find that from 2002 to 2007, accession to the WTO raised China's real economic growth rate by 2.4%, its export growth rate by 13.2% and its import growth rate by 18.89% a year. ⓒ 2011 The Authors. Pacific Economic Review ⓒ 2011 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2011	Foreign aid and economic development: The success story of South KoreaBy joining the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in December 2009, South Korea became the first country to do so after having been a recipient of aid for about 50 years. Once one of the poorest nations in the world and a major aid recipient, South Korea has emerged as the thirteenth largest economy in the world and a major donor country. Throughout South Korea's rapid development period, foreign assistance played a critical role in producing the country's miraculous economic growth. In fact, South Korea is one of the very few cases in which foreign aid succeeded in promoting self-supporting economic development of the recipient country. This article deals mainly with foreign assistance and economic development in South Korea and explains how foreign aid was used and how it contributed to the economic development of South Korea, focusing on the role of government ownership and commitment. In South Korea, foreign aid was employed successfully to overcome various national challenges and to support state-led development projects, spurring economic development. In particular, this paper highlights the importance of strong government commitment and ownership, with which South Korea effectively managed foreign aid and minimized institutional cost. The South Korean case contrasts with many other developing countries in which foreign aid has been largely wasted and failed to bring about self-supporting economic development of the recipient countries. ⓒ 2011 Center for International Studies, Inha University.
2011	Local 'Test Bed' market demand in the transition to leadership: The case of the Korean mobile handset industryThis article proposes that a potentially significant dimension of technological catching-up and the transition to leadership lies in the quality and dynamics of the local market, rather than in the export market demand as traditionally stressed in catch up studies. Based on an exploratory analysis of the Korean mobile handset industry over the period of the late 1980s to 2005 the paper shows that a transition to leadership in handsets was shaped and driven by domestic users, local service suppliers (mobile telecommunications operators), favorable government policies, and strong producer-user links forged by manufacturers and operators. Traditionally, local demand in latecomer economies has been considered too small and unsophisticated to stimulate innovation and to enable catching up. However, in this case, local demand evolved and acted as an important " test bed" for new products, services, and technologies, shaping the rate and direction of the technological development of both local suppliers and operators. The conclusion argues that while direct implications for other developing countries cannot be drawn from a single case, future research could identify whether, under certain circumstances, the role of local demand and test bed markets could have wider relevance for other advanced developing nations and other sectors approaching the technology frontier. ⓒ 2011 Elsevier Ltd.
2011	The Good, the Bad and the Confusing: The Political Economy of Social Care Expansion in South KoreaRecent social policy reforms in South Korea indicate a progressive shift by a conservative government to modify the familialistic male breadwinner model that informs its welfare regime. The Korean government has demonstrated support for women through an increase in the provision, regulation and coordination of childcare and workplace support programmes for working parents. At the same time, labour market reforms have also created more pressures on women to seek and maintain paid work outside the home. Conflicting social and economic policy objectives have resulted in a confusing mix of policies, advancing and impeding gender equality at the same time. This contribution examines the recent family-work reconciliation policy reforms in Korea and discusses why these reforms may be good politics but a bad deal for women. ⓒ 2011 International Institute of Social Studies.
2011	Theorising the Korean state beyond Institutionalism: Class content and form of 'national' developmentAlthough the Korean developmental state has been heavily discussed in various disciplines and across diverse political spectrums, the statist notion that the developmental state is autonomous from and disciplines society, and is therefore effective in achieving 'national development', has more often been taken for granted than problematised. Statism is also pervasive in institutionalism that emphasises the linkages rather than dichotomies between state and market and in the recent discussions on the transformation of the developmental state. This article proposes an alternative conceptual framework by reformulating 'the form critique of the state' pioneered by Evgeny Pashukanis and further developed in the 'German state derivation debate' on the one hand, and 'world system analysis' on the other. Extending the Marxist critique of 'commodity fetishism' to the theorisation of the developmental state, it inquires into the origins of statism and argues that it is the uneven dynamics of capitalism as a global system that give rise to statism in the first place. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	The social and geopolitical origins of state transformation: The case of South KoreaRecent debates surrounding state transformation in East Asia have tended to examine either how transformations in domestic social relations undermined the efficacy of the developmental state, or how mobilisation of coercion and consent at the international level led to the adoption of neoliberal policies. Through an examination of the case of Korea, however, this article seeks to move beyond this division between 'domestic' - and 'international' - centred analyses to provide a framework wherby mutually constitutive transformations taking place both at the level of social relations of production and at the level of the international order can be integrated to produce a conjunctural analysis of state transformation. Through deploying Gramsci's concept of passive revolution, an analysis of social and geopolitical underpinnings of korean late development is provided in order to provide an alternative explanation of the causes and nature of transition towards the neoliberal state since the latter part of the twentieth century. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Does 'DAC-ability' really matter? The emergence of non-DAC donors: Introduction to policy arenaThis article provides a state of the art on the emergence of non-Development Assistance Committee (DAC) donors and the extent to which their aid activities conform to OECD Development Assistance Committee norms (DAC-ability). It outlines the main dimensions and lines of debate regarding the relationship between the DAC, and those donors that are non-DAC members and situates the papers in this policy arena. It identifies the soft law that guides the DAC's norms and standards before summarising the key debates around non-Development Assistance Committee (DAC) donors perceived deviance form DAC norms and their impact on developing countries. Finally, it examines how these tensions might be resolved in the forthcoming High Level Forum in Busan, South Korea. ⓒ 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2011	The effects of government financial support on business innovation in South KoreaThis paper briefly explains the evolution of the Korean government's financial support for business innovation and then presents an economic analysis of the effects of the government's research and development  investment on innovation output at the firm level. The empirical analysis is based on the Korean Innovation Survey 2005 and uses probit regression models and matching estimators. It found that government funding generally has a positive effect on innovation output at the firm level. When it comes to the level of innovativeness, however, it is revealed that government financial support has a positive, but statistically insignificant, effect on achieving high innovativeness. This finding is especially noteworthy considering how hard the government has tried to level up the novelty of its national innovation system, promoting enterprises to being developers and not just adopters in the innovation process. South Korea has successfully caught up with advanced economies by adopting and adapting imported technologies at a rapid rate. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2011	Evolution of innovation focus of online games: From technology-oriented, through market-oriented, and to design-oriented soft innovationThis paper aims at analysing the evolutionary innovation patterns of the online games industry in Korea. Online games, as IT-based and creative service products, are important in the development trajectory of Korea, in that Korea created a new global leadership for the online games industry breaking the traditional catch-up innovation pattern. Two research hypotheses are examined and accepted based on questionnaire surveys and in-depth interviews. First, a quantitative analysis as to the hours of online game playing for 250 games over the last 19 months demonstrates that a few games dominate the online game market in Korea, which implies network externalities in the online games industry. Second, from the perspective of evolution, the innovation focus of online games changes from technology-oriented, through market-oriented, and finally to design-oriented soft innovation. This paper introduces network externalities as the reasons why design-oriented (non-technological) soft innovation has become significant in online games over time. The results of this study suggest managerial and policy implications. Online games companies are recommended to expand the research and development  capabilities of non-technological and soft innovation in combination with those of technological innovation to improve strategic competitiveness. From the point of innovation policies, the redefinition of R&D scopes is required as a pre-requisite step for diversifying the government R&D support into the areas of non-technological and soft innovation capabilities. The government effort to grow human resources with a high level of creative capabilities relevant to soft innovation also needs to be made. ⓒ 2011 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2011	Foreign direct investment, merchandise and services trade in a transition economy: The case of CambodiaSince the liberalization of trade and investment in the 1990s, inward foreign direct investment (FDI) has been seen to play a greater role in forging trade flows, integration into the regional and international markets and economic development for a transition economy such as Cambodia. Despite her recent progress in attracting FDI and fostering trade, the direction of causality between inward FDI, exports and imports of merchandise as well as services has not been empirically explored. The findings show that inward FDI not only can promote both merchandise and services exports but also indicate the presence of backward and forward linkages, which could result in positive externalities. However, based on the impulse response analysis, it seems that merchandise exports are more vulnerable than services exports to an unanticipated shift in FDI inflows in the medium run. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Analysing potential effects of preferential liberalisation in some Asian emerging economiesThis paper examines the ex-ante effects of possible trade liberalisation of some Asian emerging economies through forming a regional economic bloc called BIMSTEC by adopting SMART and GTAP models. Based on estimated export supply elasticity, the results of SMART simulation reveal that the highest net trade effect takes place for India, the biggest economy in the bloc, followed by Bangladesh for tariff elimination. The two countries also derive substantial welfare gains. The proportionate revenue loss is remarkably higher for smaller countries such as Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh. GTAP simulation suggests that Bangladesh incurs a net welfare loss by joining the FTA. The overall intra-bloc export is likely to increase. These results imply that there is a need for designing proper compensation mechanism and technical support for the smaller economies to offset the possible adverse effects. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	What causes asset price bubble in an emerging economy? some empirical evidence in the housing sector of IndiaThis study examines the dynamic causal relationships between house prices and their five determinants - real income, short-run real interest rates, real stock price index, real effective exchange rate, and real non-food bank credit - by using the quarterly data from 1996:Q1 to 2007:Q1 for India. Using the cointegration test and the vector error-correction model (VECM), the study finds that in the long run, real income significantly and positively influences the housing prices while real non-food bank credit adversely influences it. The variance decomposition results suggest that it is the shocks to the non-food bank credit that mainly explains the variability in housing prices, besides its own shocks being the most influential while other factors are not significant. This suggests that the role of credit availability as a supply side determinant cannot be underestimated in the dynamic behaviour of housing prices in emerging economies. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Health and income variation - a panel data study on the developed and less developed economiesIn this paper, human capital in the form of 'health status' is introduced into a neoclassical economic growth model as one of the main factors differentiating rich and poor countries. Various panel data models are used to examine how health and other growth factors affect average income in different countries. Our main empirical finding indicates that a one-year increase in life expectancy (the health status measure) raises GDP per capita by 0.5-0.9%. Based on this result, a baseline health status can be established to help poor countries achieve a targeted economic growth rate. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Ownership Structure and Risk-taking Behavior: Evidence from Banks in Korea and JapanThis study analyzes the effects of managerial ownership on the risk-taking behavior of Korean and Japanese banks during the relatively regulated period of the late 1990s to the early 2000s. It finds that managerial ownership alone does not affect either the risk or the profit levels of Korean banks. In contrast, an increase in managerial ownership adds to the total risk of Japanese banks. However, increased risk-taking behavior does not produce higher levels of profit for Japanese banks. The coefficients of the interaction term between franchise value and managerial ownership are negative and statistically significant for both the Korean and the Japanese banking industries. This means that an increase in managerial ownership in banks with high franchise values discourages risk-taking behavior. The results confirm the disciplinary role of franchise value on the risk-taking behavior of banks. These results also fall in line with previous literature supporting the moral hazard hypothesis based on research into the economies of the USA and other countries. ⓒ 2011 The Authors. Asian Economic Journal ⓒ 2011 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Pty Ltd.
2011	Financial integration in East Asia: An empirical investigationThe central objective of this paper is to empirically evaluate the degree of linkages among East Asian equity and bond markets. The primary contribution of our paper to the empirical literature is that we use a financial gravity model grounded in economic theory. Using data from the International Monetary Fund's Coordinated Portfolio Investment Survey, we find that intra-East Asian financial asset holdings of four East Asian economies-Hong Kong, China; Japan; the Republic of Korea; and Singapore-are larger than the levels predicted by the financial gravity model. However, our analysis suggests that this result is likely to be driven by intraregional trade linkages, and reflects those linkages. Therefore, the salient implication for regional policy makers is that they should continue topromote intraregional financial integration. This paper also aims to analyze the impact of three different types of country-specific risks-political, economic, and financial risks-on investment from the four economies. This analysis yields a clear positive relationship between destination-country risk, particularly political risk and capital inflows. ⓒ 2011 by Asian Development Bank.
2011	Unbalanced development: The origin of Korea's self-employment problem from a comparative perspectiveWhy does South Korea have a demographically massive and economically vulnerable self-employed population? From a comparative perspective, this study argues that Korea's self-employment problem originated in the country's process of unbalanced development: Korea benefited from the strategy of export-led growth, yet it did not manage the negative impact of this strategy on labour force absorption. The consequence of unbalanced development is the limited capacity of labour markets to absorb the workforce. Therefore, rural migrants in urban areas had no choice but to open small businesses, despite having few financial and technological resources. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Assessing the performance of inflation targeting in East Asian economiesThis paper examines the implementation and performance of inflation targeting (IT) in four East Asian emerging market economies: Indonesia, Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand. It also examines monetary policy in Malaysia, a country that has not adopted IT. The study estimates policy reaction functions to test the links between the adoption of IT and use of a monetary policy rule. The impulse responses of prices to a monetary policy shock are also estimated to identify monetary policy impacts on prices. The findings on the monetary policies of the five economies can be summarised as follows. Korea has taken an inflation-responsive and forward-looking policy stance under inflation targeting, which has had an effect on the stability of prices. Indonesia and Thailand have conducted inflation-responsive but backward-looking policy stances, which have had no impact in terms of price stabilisation. The Philippines (which adopted IT but under a pegged exchange rate regime) and Malaysia have neither followed inflation-responsive rules nor had policy impacts in terms of controlling inflation. ⓒ 2011 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ 2011 Crawford School of Economics and Government, The Australian National University and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2011	Rural poverty reduction policies in Honduras, Nicaragua and Bolivia: Lessons from a comparative analysisA common trait of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) in Bolivia, Honduras and Nicaragua is the relative lack of priority assigned to the rural sector despite the high incidence of poverty found there, as well as their inability to focus on the key determinants of rural poverty. The dynamics of the PRSP process and their impact on rural poverty are analysed. Although the factors accounting for the poor results attained by poverty reduction strategies vary between the countries discussed, a common factor is the limited capacity of the State to design and implement development strategies that are able to tackle the structural causes of poverty, and hence achieve substantial and sustainable reductions in poverty. This conclusion is reinforced by a comparative analysis with South Korea and Taiwan, which have succeeded in significantly reducing poverty through a growth with equity developmentalist strategy. ⓒ 2011 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes 0957-8811.
2011	An empirical investigation of monetary interaction in the Korean economyThis paper conducts an econometric investigation of monetary interaction in the Korean economy over the past two decades. The study pays close attention to a critical role played by broad money and an interest rate term spread in the economy. A vector autoregression reveals two cointegrating relationships, both of which are consistent with macroeconomic theory: the first relationship corresponds to a broad money demand function, while the second represents a monetary policy rule function. The cointegrated system is then reduced to a vector equilibrium correction system, which characterizes the interaction between money demand and monetary policy rule. It is also demonstrated that the preferred model is a reliable forecasting device, suggesting that the broad money contains information about the real economy in the future. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Inc.
2011	Examining nonlinear dynamics of exchange rates and forecasting performance based on the exchange rate parity of four Asian economiesThis paper employs smooth transition autoregressive (STAR) models to investigate the nonlinear dynamic behavior of exchange rate deviations based on the exchange rate parity (ERP) theory in four Asian economies: Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. In this study, quarterly data from 1978 Q1 through 2007 Q4 are analyzed. The empirical results indicate that the deviations in the exchange rate of all four countries reject the null of linearity. The rate deviations in the Japanese and Korean cases exhibit a dynamic and smoothly symmetric ESTAR type process, while those in the Taiwanese and Singaporean cases match the smoothly asymmetric LSTAR type with respect to depreciating and appreciating regimes. These nonlinear characteristics can be explained by the existence of heterogeneous behavior and asymmetric information among economic agents. Furthermore, the estimation results of a nonlinear least squares (NLS) regression indicate that most of the parameter estimates are significant at the 10 percent level. The forecasted Japanese and Korean rate deviations in the ESTAR model are not superior to those from the AR model, possibly because these two countries experienced a serious fluctuation during the Asian financial crisis that occurred in 1997. However, based on the criterion of the RMSE, the forecasted Taiwanese and Singaporean rate deviations in the LSTAR model outperform those in the AR model. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier B.V.
2011	Determinants of the informal sector and their effects on the economy: The case of KoreaIn this study we adopt a general equilibrium model with occupational choice and incomplete contract enforcement in order to evaluate the effects of policies to reduce the size of the informal economy. More concretely, we try to quantify the effects of tax, entry cost, and contract enforcement on output, income distribution, and tax revenue. The model is specifically calibrated to the Korean economy. Under the assumption of an endogenously determined interest rate, the effects of policies on total output are restrictive. However, the demand effect shows that entry cost and contract enforcement have significant potential influences on output. Lowering the tax rate increases income inequality in spite of the shrinkage in size of the informal sector. There is no Laffer curve effect when the tax rate is lowered, despite the broadened tax base. Lowering the entry cost turns out to be a viable policy option for reducing the size of the informal sector, as it reduces inequality and increases tax revenue effectively. ⓒ 2011 Institute of East and West Studies.
2011	Vertical Specialization and Trade Growth in Northeast AsiaAs the global economy has become further integrated, the international production chain has become more sophisticated, with diversified stages of production located in different countries. Economic theorists have argued that the fragmentation of the global production chain is partly attributable to the high growth in international trade over the past several decades. In this study, we examine vertical specialization in China, Japan and Korea, and its contribution to these nations' trade. Using a multilevel model, it is illustrated that vertical specialization has encouraged increases in trade among all three countries. In particular, China's outcome is remarkable considering how recently it became a member of the WTO. ⓒ 2011 The Authors China & World Economy ⓒ 2011 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2011	Monetary policy and real currency appreciation: A BEER model for the Mexican PesoA notable feature of the Mexican economy since the late 1980s was the persistent real appreciation of the peso. The appreciation - a key development that helps to explain Mexico's slow rate of economic growth - took place despite changes in the exchange-rate regime, yet with an unchanging focus of monetary policy on gradually reducing the inflation rate. Thus, the frequent assumption that only real-side variables (as opposed to monetary ones) have a lasting or 'long-run' effect on the real exchange may not suit the recent Mexican case. The paper presents the results of an econometric study of exchange rate determination in Mexico for the period 1990Q1-2006Q4. The study is based on the so-called BEER (Behavioral Equilibrium Exchange Rate) model, which relies on Johansen's cointegration methodology and jointly considers real-side and monetary determinants. The estimation results - in the form of two- and three-equation cointegration models - show that, control-ling for the influence of real-side determinants, the peso-dollar interest differential had a statistically and economically significant long-run effect on the peso's real exchange rate. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Assessing the feasibility of monetary integration in the former Soviet republicsThe disintegration of the USSR brought with it a turbulent period of transition for the newly emerged independent states. This initiated a process of economic decentralization and a re-allocation of resources. Various regional formations aiming to create a single market or even a common currency area have been proposed amongst the former Soviet states. Despite this, very little in terms of economic integration has been achieved so far. Economies within the CIS are divergent in terms of size and economic structure, with external shocks being more prominent for regional countries. The empirical analysis provided here examines the sustainability of optimum currency area arrangements within the IS.The results present weak evidence to support monetary arrangements in the region, nonetheless some evidence was found for Russia-Belarus and to some extent Russia-Kazakhstan. Russia remains the dominant, most diversified and advanced economy in the region. In the case of a monetary union with regional countries, the union is likely to happen by absorption. External shocks have divergent effects on regional countries; the differences to a large extent are attributed to the magnitude of responses, further weakening the argument in favour of the OCA in the region. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Currency substitution and financial repressionIn this paper, we use a general equilibrium overlapping generations monetary endogenous growth model of a small open economy, to analyze whether financial repression, measured via the 'high' mandatory reserve-deposit requirements of financial intermediaries, is an optimal response of a consolidated government following an increase in the degree of currency substitution. We find that higher currency substitution can yield higher reserve requirements, but the result depends crucially on how the consumer weighs money in the utility function relative to domestic and foreign consumptions, and also the size of the government. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	The Frontier of broadband adoption across the OECD: A comparison of performanceWe assess the performance and efficiency of OECD countries with respect to broadband Internet subscription. Using the econometric techniques of Least Squares and Stochastic Frontier Analysis, we estimate scores indicating the efficiency with which a country converts its economic and demographic endowments into broadband subscriptions. With very few exceptions, we find that broadband subscription in OECD countries is consistent with those endowments - about two thirds of OECD countries have an efficiency rate of 90% or better. We find that economic and demographic endowments explain nearly all of the variation in broadband subscriptions (85%). This finding suggests that public policy's role for broadband adoption should be targeted at improving or mitigating the adverse effects of underlying demographic and economic conditions, such as computer ownership and education programs. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Modeling guarantees, over-indebtedness and financial crises in an open economyThis work develops a simple framework to analyse how financial intermediaries' balance sheet problems combined with financial guarantees make an economy more vulnerable to financial crises. A 'double default' problem - that is, the default of financial intermediaries on their debt repayments and of the government on its guarantees to bailout intermediaries' losses-is modeled in this study. The possibility of multiple equilibria, including a crisis equilibrium where the government is not able or willing to honor its guarantees towards the domestic financial sector, arises from the interplay of all the above elements: financial intermediaries' level of indebtedness, government implicit guarantees and high-risk creditors' lending. This work also produces predictions concerning the vulnerability to a financial crisis: multiple equilibria are possible only in certain ranges of the fundamentals. ⓒ 2011 Korea International Economic Association.
2011	Modelling R&amp;D expenditure data with zero observations: Two-equation modelThis article attempts to analyse the determinants of firms' Research and Development  expenditures in Korea by considering the business environment after the economic crisis in 1997. In addition, to take into account zero R&D expenditure, this article employed a two-equation model unlike models used in other studies. This method incorporates a two-level decision structure: the participation decision and the decision on the amount to spend once the issue of participation has been decided. According to the estimation results, while the proposition that larger firms are more active in R&D is true, the proposition that firms that possess market power are more active in R&D is not true for Korea. Technical cooperation among Korean firms seems to be less active than in other countries. In addition, the results indicate that foreign investment stimulates the firms' R&D expenditure. Furthermore, a number of factors were found to play a role in promoting firms' R&D activities: the external conditions of the firms' R&D activities, including the location, other firms' R&D activities in the same industry, support from the government and technical support from research institutes. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Governance and capabilities: Asia's entrepreneurial performance and stock of venture formsAsian economies display large evident differences in their entrepreneurial capabilities and performance. While existing explanations of these differences have largely focused on formal and informal background institutions, we instead emphasize differences in national stocks of venture forms. We suggest that alternate venture forms, because of their different governance characteristics, possess unique entrepreneurial capabilities and pursue distinct opportunities. Consequently, nations must possess a diverse and balanced stock of venture forms and have such forms engaged in the unique and complementary activities for which they are best suited. Viewed in this light, addressing national limitations in entrepreneurial performance requires changes in stocks of venture forms. In developing the policy implications of our analysis, we highlight the past successes and current development challenges of Japan, Korea, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, and mainland China. ⓒ 2010 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.
2011	The impact of asian crisis on market integration: Evidence from east asian real interest ratesThis article examines the linkage of real interest rates for a group of East Asian countries. Monthly real interest rates data are considered for the USA, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Thailand from 1980 to 2005. It is found that the degree of capital market integration has increased after the Asian financial crisis in 1997. Before the crisis, both the US and Japanese capital markets dominated the region. After the crisis, the dominance of the Japanese market has completely disappeared while the US market remains the sole dominant player. Also it appears that Korea was insulated from the regional market influence before the crisis. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	The North Korean economy: Escape from import-led growthWe investigate causal relationships among exports, imports, and economic growth in North Korea using time series data for the period between 1964 and 2008. The empirical results show Granger causality from imports to GNP in the first half of the period and from GNP to imports in the second half. This implies that the North Korean economy escaped from the import-led growth situation that some socialist economies had experienced and changed its macroeconomic mechanism in 1991. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Inc.
2011	Asian FTAs: Trends, prospects and challengesAlthough a latecomer, economically important Asia has emerged at the forefront of global free trade agreement (FTA) activity. This has sparked concerns about the negative effects of Asian FTAs, including the "noodle bowl" problem. Amid slow progress in the World Trade Organization's (WTO) Doha negotiations and the global financial crisis, however, Asian regionalism seems to be here to stay. The focus for policymakers should then be how best to minimize the costs of FTAs while maximizing their benefits. Adopting a pragmatic perspective, this paper examines key trends and challenges in Asian FTAs. It provides new evidence from firm surveys, analysis of specific agreements, and computable general equilibrium estimates. It provides the following set of recommendations: strengthen the support system for using FTAs; rationalize rules of origin and upgrade their administration; ensure better coverage of agricultural trade; forge comprehensive "WTO-plus" agreements; and encourage a region-wide FTA. Political economy considerations suggest that a likely scenario is for FTA consolidation in Asia-by creating a People's Republic of China-Japan-Korea FTA, combining it with ASEAN + 1 FTAs, and then involving Australia, India, and New Zealand-to be followed by connections with North America and Europe. In conclusion, the analysis suggests a bottom-up approach to a Doha Round Agreement should be adopted. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Inc.
2011	Productivity growth, efficiency change and technical progress of the Korean manufacturing industryBy using a plentiful plant-level data-set, we examined productivity growth of the Korean manufacturing industry for the period 1993-2003. In doing this, we employed the Malmquist productivity growth index. We also investigated decomposed components of productivity growth. A second-stage regression analysis was employed to find determinants of productivity growth. Empirical results show that after the 1997 financial crisis productivity and efficiency decreased, whereas technology improved. The result of the second regression analysis indicates that a competitive market condition, R&D activities, export activities and innovativeness increased the rate of productivity growth. It also shows that productivity converged during the study period. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	The international community and the North Korean nuclear programmeThe international community has employed different mechanisms to contain the North Korean nuclear programme over the last two decades, each animated by a different leadership model. Model 1, emerging in the 1993-94 crisis and forming the basis for the Agreed Framework, was characterised by US leadership, US-DPRK negotiations, and the provision of economic incentives. The breakdown of the Agreed Framework process in 2002 and 2003 made possible a second model, marked by a Chinese-led regional approach and the creation of a case-specific non-proliferation regime by the UNSC. This paper proceeds by outlining the development of the North Korean nuclear programmes and the measures the international community has taken to address them. We find that a fledgling model 3 approach, focused on preventing horizontal proliferation and led by a US-Chinese duopoly, might be in the making.
2011	Attitudes and sense of responsibility of University students toward their aging parents in Japan and KoreaThe purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between industrialization and attitudes of students toward their aging parents in two different cultures. The self administered questionnaires were given to students in summer 1986 and 1998, 1999. The 1986 sample consisted of 567 students from 7 universities in Tokyo, 511 students from 8 universities in Seoul. The 1999 sample consisted of 731 students from 7 universities in Tokyo, and in 1998 415 students from 5 universities Seoul. Though Japan and Korea made a rapid growth of economy, these countries have the common tradition of Confucianism, social norms and cultural values concerning to their aging parents. The attitudes toward financial and physical support are related to personal experiences in 1986 and 1998, 1999. In Japan, those who were satisfied with family relations showed more willingness to support their parents financially or physically if they became dependent. But in Korea those who had often been told to provide filial piety tended to show favorable attitudes toward filial piety, and willingness to give financial support and care for the bed-ridden parents. The favorable attitude toward filial piety was significantly associated with the willingness to provide financial and physical support to the parents. However, it is difficult to say which is the cause and which is the effect. Those who are favorable toward filial piety tend to show a strong sense of responsibility toward their parents, but in turn, those who have a strong sense of filial responsibility will show favorable attitude toward filial piety.
2011	An empirical analysis of East Asian computer and electronic goods exportsFor the last 15 years, computers and electronic goods have been the leading export categories from East Asia to the rest of the world. They are produced within regional production and distribution networks. Japan, South Korea and Taipei, China, construct technology-intensive parts and components and ship them to China and ASEAN for processing by lower-skilled workers and reexport. This paper presents evidence that exchange rate appreciations in countries supplying parts and components to East Asian assembly economies would curtail these sophisticated exports, while exchange rate appreciations in assembly economies would not. The evidence also indicates that decreases in income in importing countries would significantly reduce computer and electronic goods exports. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Bank internationalisation during the global financial crisis: An Asia Pacific perspectiveBank internationalisation traditionally takes the form of lending to non-residents, but increasingly non-resident securities are purchased. These assets are funded mostly by international loans and deposits, rather than the issuance of securities. Within the Asia Pacific region, the largest net beneficiaries of international bank funding to developing economies are China, India and South Korea. Importantly, apart from the financial centres of Hong Kong and Singapore, which show significant outward as well as inward banking flows, Chinese Taipei is an important international lender. Australia and New Zealand remain significant net international borrowers. The Global Financial Crisis reversed earlier developments with China and Japan now becoming net international borrowers, while both Hong Kong and Singapore have reduced their net asset positions. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Mobile service usage behavior in Korea: An empirical study on consumer acceptance of innovative technologiesWhilst mobile services have grown to a sizeable market in recent years, and leaps and bounds have been made in related technology, consumers' usage behavior with regard to these services has received little attention from researchers. Studies on related topics are few and scarce, if compared, for example, to studies on information systems or web services. The main purpose of this study is to investigate consumers' usage behavior in mobile services to provide pointers for future development of this field. Specifically, this study attempts to identify variables influencing the use of mobile service consumers. We developed an information technology acceptance model to determine usage characteristics and usage trends in mobile services and predict consumers' usage behavior based on patterns discerned from these characteristics and trends. Information technology acceptance models are a useful tool for understanding the behavior of consumers of services such as mobile services, combining aspects of a technology and service good, from the perspective of behavioral science. This study, comprehensively concerned with mobile service marketing-related issues, considers both factors influencing consumers' usage behavior and also technical aspects of services. Factors influencing the behavior of mobile service consumers are investigated empirically, by examining them in a real-world context. The expected outcomes of this study are as follows: First, it will predict consumers' usage behavior with regard to mobile services based on usage characteristics at the level of task management, and discern identifiable and recurring patterns. Second, it will awaken providers to the importance of technical and functional performance and a clear understanding of consumers' needs for the success of marketing mobile services. ⓒ 2011 Vilnius Gediminas Technical University (VGTU) Press Technika.
2011	Government expenditure on education and enrolment rates in indonesia in the new millennium: An East Asian perspectiveThis note examines the likely impact of increased government expenditure on education in Indonesia resulting from new policy initiatives since the year 2000. These initiatives were consolidated in 2003 following the enactment of a new 'Law on National Education System'. The effectiveness of this policy is questioned by comparing the expenditure and enrolment rates between Indonesia and other High Performing Asian Economies (HPAEs) - Singapore, Hong Kong, South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia from 2000 to 2007. Privatisation of educational institutions, not greater government involvement, has been the norm across most of the other HPAEs during the 2000s. Privatisation leads to improvements in the quality and cost of education. Enrolment rates indicate that the quality of education has not improved in Indonesia as compared to other HPAEs. Improvements in quality will become a particularly important issue for Indonesia as it continues to cope with the challenges brought about by China and India's unprecedented growth as labour-intensive manufacturing powerhouses. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Aggregate shocks decomposition for eight East Asian countriesAll economies experience peaks and troughs in their business cycles. This paper examines eight East Asian economies, employing a Bayesian dynamic factor model that allows the decomposition of aggregate shocks into country-specific, regional and world common business cycles. It therefore allows the identification of causes for major events experienced by these countries. Empirical evidences show that country-specific factors are the most important in determining the major events for all the countries examined here, implying the need for each country to rely more heavily on its own independent counter-cyclical policies. Although the regional factor plays a less important role than the country-specific factor, it accounts for a sizeable share in the output fluctuation of the region. The regional factor is most prevalent for Singapore, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand, indicating that a regional coordinated policy is rather more effective for these economies to respond to disturbances. The world factor explains only around 7% of the output variation in East Asia, which might explain why the East Asian economies are relatively insulated from the recent global financial crisis. ⓒ 2011 Taylor & Francis.
2011	Physical capital accumulation in Asia-12: Past trends and future projectionsThe pace of capital accumulation in East Asia has simply been stunning. In this paper, we investigate sources of this fast accumulation and make projections for the future to see if the trend is likely to continue. East Asian economies under consideration are the People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; Indonesia; the Republic of Korea; Malaysia, the Philippines; Singapore; Taipei, China; Thailand; and Viet Nam, including India and Pakistan from South Asia. We estimate a "convergence" equation for physical capital per capita, which is derived from an open economy growth model, using a pooled cross-country, across-decade sample of the entire world. Based on the estimation results, we decompose past growth in physical capital per capita of the emerging Asian economies. We also conduct projections for the next two decades and study determinants of the investment rate for those economies.
2011	Building a national wind turbine industry: Experiences from China, India and South KoreaThis paper explores the strategies used by the domestic wind power technology companies in China, India and South Korea in order to understand how these countries have acquired and assimilated advanced technologies. It finds that the primary technology transfer and acquisition strategies utilised included licensing arrangements and Mergers and Acquisitions (M&A) that resulted in the transfer of technology ownership and partnerships for the joint development of new technology. As technology development becomes increasingly global, firms in the emerging economies can take advantage of their increasing access to technological know-how that was previously developed by and for the developed world. Copyright ⓒ 2011 Inderscience Enterprises Ltd.
2011	Bus rapid transit impacts on land uses and land values in Seoul, KoreaBus rapid transit (BRT) has gained popularity as a cost-effective alternative to urban rail investments; however, relatively little is known about its impacts on land-use changes and land values. This paper examines the land-market effects of converting regular bus operations to median-lane bus services in Seoul, Korea, one of the densest, most congested cities in the world. Multilevel models reveal BRT improvements prompted property owners to convert single-family residences to higher density apartments and condominiums. Land price premiums of up to 10% were estimated for residences within 300. m of BRT stops and more than 25% for retail and other non-residential uses over a smaller impact zone of 150. m. The research findings underscore the importance of introducing zoning and other land regulatory changes prior to the initiation of BRT improvements as well as applying value-capture tools to help finance investments and redress inequities. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Ltd.
2010	Emergence of East Asian TFT-LCD clusters: A comparative analysis of the Samsung cluster in South Korea and the Chimei cluster in TaiwanThis paper investigates cluster formation and the development processes of new thin file transistor liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) clusters in East Asia. Despite the pivotal role of clusters in regional development and national competitiveness, there are only a few studies on how new East Asian high-tech clusters have emerged and evolved and how these clusters are similar to and different from other clusters. Based on a comparative analysis of new TFT-LCD clusters between Samsung in Asan-Tangjung, South Korea, and Chimei in Tainan, Taiwan, we examine dynamic development processes and investigate how these rural areas have changed into high-tech clusters in only a decade's time. Specifically, this paper explores the preconditions and initiation characteristics of TFT-LCD clusters. It also compares some similarities and differences between two East Asian TFT-LCD clusters and investigates the uniqueness of other global clusters. Therefore, this paper enhances our understanding of the dynamics of industrial clusters, adds a comparative perspective on cluster analysis, and suggests policy implications from the case study of cluster formation in South Korea and Taiwan.
2010	Identification of technology transfer options based on technological characteristicsTraditionally, licensing has been the dominant channel for the commercialization of the intellectual property of public sectors. However, performing the cooperative R&D and formation of spin-off companies has become an alternative route for technology transfer. With plenty of options by which public research institutes (PRI) can employ technology transfer, one should determine first the appropriate channel for the transfer in order to establish the appropriate strategy. This paper builds a theoretical framework to match the mode of technology transfer with two key conditions: (1) absorptive capacity of recipient firms and (2) dependence on complementary assets. The theoretical discussion elucidates that the combination of lower level of absorptive capacity and less dependence on complementary assets favor the creation of new firms as a mode of technology transfer; the opposite combination favors cooperative research and development , and the in-between case supports licensing as an appropriate mode of transfer. Based on the theoretical framework, we analyzed the case of chemical industry in Korea utilizing the concept of patent portfolio analysis.
2010	Effects of R&amp;D and patents on the financial performance of Korean venture firmsThis study examines the causal effect of research and development  and patents on the financial performance of venture firms in Korea, a model catch-up economy. The tests for random and fixed effects yielded important findings. R&D investment is the most significant factor affecting patenting. However, the results for the effect of R&D and patents on financial performance were inconclusive. Whereas R&D was positively correlated with sales growth, R&D and patents did not improve firm profitability. These findings illustrate the difference between advanced economies and catch-up economies in terms of incentives for R&D and patents. Unlike in advanced economies, venture firms in catch-up economies have to depend on incentive-based government support. Venture firms in catch-up economies respond to this incentive system by simply increasing the number of patents and by being less diligent in terms of achieving financial performance.
2010	An analysis of international cooperation in the public research and development programs of KoreaThis paper describes the characteristics of international cooperation (IC) in public research and development  programs organized by the Korean government. In particular, using quantitative data, it analyzes differences in research output between the R&D programs that are specifically designed by the government to promote IC and the general government-funded R&D programs. One of the most remarkable findings is that IC occurs most frequently in basic research and technology areas where Korea has either relatively low or high technological advancement. In addition, there is a positive relationship between IC and the research output. In conclusion, we also draw policy implications regarding international public R&D cooperation practices in Korea.
2010	New estimates for the shadow economies all over the worldThis paper presents estimations of the shadow economies for 162 countries, including developing, Eastern European, Central Asian, and high income OECD countries over 1999 to 2006/2007. According to our estimations, the weighted average size of the shadow economy (as a percentage of 'official' GDP) in Sub-Saharan Africa is 37.6%, in Europe and Central Asia (mostly transition countries) 36.4% and in high income OECD countries 13.4%. We find that an increased burden of taxation (direct and indirect ones), combined with (labour market) regulations and the quality of public goods and services as well as the state of the 'official' economy are the driving forces of the shadow economy. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Some alternative estimates of underground economies in 12 new EU member statesThis paper investigates alternative estimates of the Non-Observed Economy (NOE) for 12 new European Union (EU) Member Countries during the transition period by an exploration of the reliability of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) figures. The authors analyze several methodologies applied in various countries performing the Eurostat (2005) Pilot Projects on the Exhaustiveness (PPE); having in mind the different methods of measuring the shadow economy, the authors examine the relationship between selected economic aggregates to estimate the size and growth of the unrecorded sector using the Latent Variable Method to validate - as far as available - the official data, and to quantify the NOE phenomenon. The empirical results obtained by using this different estimation method do not reveal the same convergence as the national statistical offices have shown. These experiences include, to various degrees, the lack of coverage being dependent on the different types of underground economic activities. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Regional estimates of the shadow economy in EuropeThe aim of the paper is to estimate the extent of the shadow economy in the regions of the European Union. For this purpose the multiple-indicators multiple-causes approach combined with elements of spatial econometrics is implemented. The analysis shows that the shadow economy is most extensive in Eastern and Southern Europe, confirming results from previous literature.Within countries, the poorest regions tend to exhibit the highest shadow economy quotas. The smallest extent of shadow activities is obtained for the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, while in Poland the shadow economy is most extensive. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Evaluation of the underground economy in Quebec: A microeconomic approachThe main purpose of this paper is to estimate the size and the growth of Quebec's underground economy, and the corresponding loss of taxes for the government. Our approach is based on a method developed by Pissarides and Weber (1989) and extended by Lyssiotou et al. (2004). The basic hypothesis is that individuals can under-report their earnings from self-employment but not frompaidwork, fromwhich taxes are directly deducted.We estimate a consumer demand system in which the marginal propensity to consume is allowed to vary with the two types of earnings. We next estimate the amount of self-employment earnings that are under-reported. From this estimate, we calculate the relative size of the underground economy in Quebec. We use data from Statistics Canada's Survey of Household Spending. According to our results, Quebec's underground economy amounted to 4.6% of GDP in 1997 and increased slightly to 5.7% in 2002. For the government, this represents approximately $3.3 billion in forgone taxes for the year 2002. This estimate is very close to those reported by Gervais (1994) and Fortin and Lacroix (2009) using very different estimation methods and data. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Impacts of sequential free trade agreements in East Asia: A CGE and political economy analysisThis paper estimates the economic impacts of the various sequential liberalization scenarios in East Asia, emphasizing the significance of the "sequence" of the liberalization process in computable general equilibrium (CGE) analysis. The major findings are as follows: (1) "Sequence" matters in measuring the economic impacts of free trade agreement (FTA) scenarios in the region; (2) Scenario 1 (Korea-China FTA → Korea-Japan FTA → China-Japan FTA) is the sequence maximizing Korea's economic gains, whereas Scenario 3 (Korea-China- Japan FTA) is the one most preferred economically by China and Japan; (3) Korea's FTAs with the United States (US) and European Union (EU) can be evaluated as a preemptive strategic move, causing changes in FTA preferences of Korea and Japan; (4) the prediction of Bond and Baldwin (adjustment cost and juggernaut effect) and that of Evenett et al. (trade diversion effect) are supported by the empirical results that Korea's (China's) expected gains from northeast Asian FTA sequences increase (decrease) after Korea's FTAs with the US and EU are made; (5) predictions about the International Political Economy (IPE) theories (power consideration and domestic politics) upon the sequential FTA formations in East Asia are consistent with the findings above. ⓒ 2010 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2010	The shadow economy in international comparison: Options for economic policy derived from an OECD panel analysisBuilding on new behavioral theories, using a data set of about 450 variables and augmenting the Sala-i-Martin definition of robustness, we find evidence in support of the hypothesis that the standard causes of the shadow economy (SE), taxes, the administrative burden and labor market regulations, are not per se crucial in determining the size of the SE. Many of the robust influences emanate from relatively newtheories such as elements of direct democracy, social interaction effects, and happiness, and from the institutional literature on the relative importance of specific institutions for economic performance. Most of them can well be affected by governments. Hence, if one believes the SE to be a problem in high income industrial countries, governments could address it through many ways, including their own behavior. And these could be more successful than a strategy built on more government control, increased punishment and less freedom, as adopted by some OECD countries. Simulations of the size of the SE demonstrate their sensitivity to the required velocity assumption and show that previous estimates, including those of the so-called Mimic model, appear to be based on very high velocity assumptions. A moderate velocity assumption yields macro estimates of the SE consistent with the micro evidence, i.e. not more than a few percent of official GDP. Finally, for the first time, we separate the relatively large 'crime-related' shadow activity from the 'non-criminal' one. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Entrepreneurship and the hidden economy: An extended matching modelThis paper develops a labour market matching model in order to address the problem of the persistence of the hidden sector and of its regional concentration, as in Italy and in the enlarged Europe. The main novel features of the model are that entrepreneurial ability affects job productivity, and that regular firms receive negative externalities from the hidden sector, which may capture the pressure typically exerted by corruption and organised crime, and positive externalities from the other regular firms. At least one interior equilibrium emerges, thus providing an explanation for the so-called 'shadow puzzle', with the possibility that tougher monitoring may reduce both the hidden sector and unemployment. If externalities are non-linear, two equilibria may emerge, thus accounting for regional dualism. The 'better' equilibrium is in fact characterised by a smaller hidden sector, higher levels of overall productivity, output, entrepreneurial ability used, extra-profits, relative wages, and more favourable externalities. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Shadow economy - the impact of regulation in OECD-countriesAcomprehensive regulation index covering five major fields (labour, product and capital market; education/innovation and the quality of institutions) has been used to analyse the relationship between the density of regulations and the size of shadow economies. The empirical results from 25 OECD countries for the time period 1995-2005 show that - apart fromtax burden and tax morale - the main causes are labour and product market regulations, overall regulations and poor quality of official public institutions and administration. An overview of relevant findings on the impact of regulation on irregular activities complements these findings. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Determinants and size of the shadow economy - a structural equation modelThe main objective of this paper is to analyze the determinants of the shadow economy within a coherent Structural Equation Model using a data set of 11 latent variables with 58 indicators from 35 countries. The shadow economy is closely connected to its determinants; a higher wealth and development level, a better administrative system, lower taxes and social security payments and the extent of labor market regulations determine the level of shadow economy. Germany ranks 16th of 35 countries by shadow economy, with a score of 3.6, with the best being New Zealand, 1.0, and the worst Romania, 10. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	The unofficial economy and the business cycle: A test for theoriesThe shadow economy is an extensive phenomenon worldwide. It poses several questions, the consequences of fluctuations in economic activity being among the major ones. Based on official data, this paper establishes a set of cyclical properties of macroeconomic aggregates and studies how these vary across countries with the size of the unofficial sector. Through comparisons with the existing literature on business cycles in economies featuring underground activities, the obtained 'stylized facts' are used to test the relevance of theoretical predictions on the influence of the shadoweconomy. Using this procedure allows us to confirm that the evidence is not entirely of the sort suggested in business cycle models. In particular, some important macro aggregates and cyclical properties have been neglected in the analysis altogether, while others have been paid toomuch attention for no apparent empirical reason. Some possible avenues for future research can be drawn from this exercise. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Shadow economy, tax evasion, and transfer fraud - definition, measurement, and data problemsThe paper tries to shed some light on the definition of the shadow economy, in order to separate shadow activities from market activities and household production. A total income concept is applied, which is based on the labor force being engaged in market, shadow and household activities. Based on such a clear concept, tax evasion can be defined and identified in the market sector and is also usually taking place in the shadow economy, where it is often accompanied by evasion of social security contributions as well as transfer fraud. Money usage in the three sectors is then critically analyzed, and measurement as well as data problems are seriously taken into consideration. The results of our research project suggest that the size of the shadow economy as estimated with the currency approach often yields the highest possible values. Other approaches and plausibility considerations produce much lower values, which seem to be much more realistic. Consequently, policy considerations to strengthen the control mechanisms should be met with utmost skepticism. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Is cash used only in the shadow economy?This paper analyzes the use of cash in the Euro area. It attempts to give at least a partial answer to the question of whether cash is predominantly used in the shadow economy and whether, consequently, the behavior of cash balances is useful in monitoring changes in the shadow economy. The paper shows that - contrary to what is often assumed - recent developments in cash demand (including changes in denomination structure) can be fairly well explained by certain economic and institutional factors. Changes in cash demand do not seem to correspond to changes in existing measures of the shadow economy, nor do cross-country comparisons reveal close correspondence. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Globalisation and institutional change in the State-Led Model: The case of corporate governance in South KoreaThis article explores the homogenising pressures of globalisation and institutional change in the state-led model of capitalism, within the purview of the 'varieties of capitalism' literature. In light of the observation that the national political economies which are the exemplars of the state-led model have undergone a more fundamental change towards the liberal market model than the other non-liberal variant (namely, the coordinated market model), the article asks what systemic (structural-institutional) factors make the state-led model less resilient in the face of pressures for change. Focusing on corporate governance in South Korea as an illustrative case study, the article argues that the absence of the kind of institutional complementarity (that is, mutually reinforcing link) between the key capitalist sub-systems found in the coordinated market model can help to explain the profound, and even path-shifting, change in the state-led model. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Exploring the spectrum of export destination: The geographic spread of korean exports, its determinants, and policy implicationsRecent research in international trade has explored the stylized facts and causes and effects of export diversification. A simple model in this paper drawing on the work of Melitz suggests that there is an order in which a country spreads its goods to foreign countries. We estimate the order by using a methodology which takes account of the fact that most goods are not exported to several countries in our sample (unbalanced panel). We find that Korea exports its new goods first to the United States, followed by Japan, Hong Kong, and Singapore, and most recently to Bosnia-Herzegovina. Finally we find that the countries that Korea has exported to first are those with large GDP, low tariff rates, geographic proximity, language familiarity, in-country Korean export promotion offices, and high-quality institutions. ⓒ 2010 The Authors. The Developing Economies ⓒ 2010 Institute of Developing Economies.
2010	What does South Korean inflation targeting target?This paper characterises South Korean monetary policy in the period of explicit inflation targeting that started in 1999. We calculate Bank of Korea's parameters in the policy objective function, conditional on an estimated macro-model. We show that this central bank appears to have pursued optimal policy geared towards achieving price stability, while displaying a considerable degree of interest rate smoothing. In addition, the central bank loss function is estimated to include negligible weights on output and exchange-rate variability. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Inc.
2010	Financial market reforms and corporate financing in KoreaFollowing the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Korean economy experienced radical structural reforms, particularly in the financial sector. In this environment, Korea's corporate sector, once characterized by a high degree of leverage, turned to the capital market for financing, while banks diversified their lending targets. Our analysis of large firm-level data finds that, following the crisis, the corporate financing behaviour of both chaebol-affiliated and independent firms became more responsive to such factors as return on assets, cash flows and credit rating. On the lenders' side, the tighter prudential enforcement of the 1988 Basel capital adequacy requirements limited the supply of bank loans. We conclude that both the changed corporate incentives in an environment of greater market discipline and the improved prudential supervision explain much of the more diversified pattern of Korean corporate financing practices in the post-crisis period. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	An overview of Asian equity marketsThis study overviews the development of 11 Asian equity markets, namely, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, and Thailand. Prior to the onset of the global financial crisis, the Asian stock exchanges were generally bullish, underpinned particularly by China's robust economic performance. Innovations in financial products and services have been growing in importance, as stock exchanges in these countries have been making a concerted effort to introduce new features and best practices, with the objectives of raising market efficiency, enhancing service quality, and generally bringing operations up to par with international standards. But the potential to realize or support market efficiency can only be possible within an adequate legal framework, a sound market infrastructure, and appropriate corporate governance mechanisms. Thus, many challenges are still to be overcome in the region. ⓒ 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ 2010 Crawford School of Economics and Government, The Australian National University and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2010	Global crisis, exchange rate response, and economic performance: A story of two countries in east asiaWe consider Korea and Japan in East Asia as the representative country of each of the two groups: high- versus low-depreciation economies during the 2008 global financial crisis. Although the two countries have geographical and industrial similarities, their exchange rate change during the crisis was notably opposite, and so were the macro-economic performances. Particularly, exchange rate and trade flows turned out to have played a major role in creating such differences. Exporting firms significantly outperformed the stock market in Korea, while underperforming in the Japanese stock market during the crisis. However, we could not find this pattern prior to the crisis. The difference caused by the exchange rate change, particularly in time of turmoil of the substantial economic recession and depreciation. ⓒ 2010 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2010	The lunar moon festival and the dark side of the moonWe propose and adduce evidence for a new seasonal anomaly associated with the Lunar Moon Festival (LMF) in East Asian economies. While the LMF effect bears some resemblance to the festivity and vacation anomalies, it is mainly driven by nostalgia, historically negative associations, the full moon and uncertainty about future harvest prospects. This negative sentiment and associated increase in risk and loss aversion are responsible for reducing share turnover, return volatility and stock returns over a 2-week period. The LMF effect is the strongest for China, Taiwan and South Korea where it is not only celebrated as a public or cultural holiday but it also impacts on neighbouring stock markets where overseas Chinese investors possess significant resources. Robustness checks demonstrate that it has a distinctive and more pronounced impact than competing seasonal effects associated with lunar phases and the summer vacations. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Projection of long-term total factor productivity growth for 12 Asian economiesThis study reviews and analyzes the changes in total factor productivity  growth in 12 Asian economies-the People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; India; Indonesia; the Republic of Korea; Malaysia; Pakistan; the Philippines; Singapore; Taipei, China; Thailand; and Viet Nam-for the period 1970-2007. By performing an empirical analysis using a comprehensive international data set, the paper investigates the main factors influencing TFP growth based on a modified version of the 2003 empirical growth model of Bosworth and Collins. Special emphasis is placed on intangible factors such as human capital, and research and development capital, in defining the TFP dynamics. The resulting benchmark models from these empirical analyses are used to produce the long-term projection of TFP growth for the Asian economies for the period 2010 through 2030. ⓒ 2010 by Asian Development Bank.
2010	Asian FTAs: Trends, prospects, and challengesAlthough a latecomer, economically important Asia has emerged at the forefront of global free trade agreement (FTA) activity. This has sparked concerns about the negative effects of Asian FTAs, including the "noodle bowl" problem. Amid slow progress in the World Trade Organization's (WTO) Doha negotiations and the global financial crisis, however, Asian regionalism seems to be here to stay. The focus for policy makers should then be how best to minimize the costs of FTAs while maximizing their benefits. Adopting a pragmatic perspective, this paper examines key trends and challenges in Asian FTAs. It provides new evidence from firm surveys, analysis of specific agreements, and computable general equilibrium estimates. It provides the following set of recommendations: strengthen the support system for using FTAs; rationalize rules of origin and upgrade their administration; ensure better coverage of agricultural trade; forge comprehensive "WTO-plus" agreements; and encourage a regionwide FTA. Political economy considerations suggest that a likely scenario is for FTA consolidation in Asia-by creating a People's Republic of China-Japan-Republic of Korea FTA, combining it with ASEAN+1 FTAs, and then involving Australia, India, and New Zealand-to be followed by connections with North America and Europe. In conclusion, the analysis suggests that a bottom-up approach to a Doha Round Agreement should be adopted. ⓒ 2010 by Asian Development Bank.
2010	What Drives Monetary Policy in Post-Crisis East Asia? Interest Rate or Exchange Rate Monetary Policy RulesThis paper estimates a simple small open macroeconomic model to analyse the effectiveness of monetary policy rules (MPRs) where either the nominal interest rate or the nominal exchange rate is the policy instrument. The aim is to ascertain which of those MPRs are best suited for a selection of inflation targeting economies of Asia. Normally, one would associate inflation targeting with interest rate rules but it is thought that, due to fear of floating, exchange rate rules may well be more effective given the openness of these economies. It is found that interest rate rules seem to better reflect the prevailing policy regime than exchange rate rules. It is also found that stronger relationships pertaining to the interest rate rules are found in the case of Korea and Thailand than for Indonesia and the Philippines. Exchange rates appear to be very influential in determining the value of the nominal interest rate but not in a policy sense. ⓒ 2010 Elsevier Inc.
2010	Are real exchange rates mean reverting in developing economies in Asia? a covariate stationarity approachPrevious studies on the stationarity properties of the real exchange rates in developing countries in Asia have generally produced mixed results. The unit root behavior is puzzling because it contradicts the purchasing power parity (PPP) hypothesis. This study examines international data on 15 developing countries by employing the covariate stationarity test proposed by Jansson (2004). The covariates used are motivated by economic theory, including inflation, money supply, income and current account. Our results show strong evidence in support of the hypothesis. On the contrary, the unit root test with the alternative hypothesis of nonlinear mean reversion provides inadequate evidence in favor of PPP. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Effect of financial development on economic growth: Does inflation matter? Time series evidence from the UEMOA countriesAn important issue in the finance and growth literature is whether the strength of the relationship between finance and growth may depend on inflation rate. This paper uses time-series data to examine this evidence for seven African countries. The technique of principal component analysis is used to construct an overall index for financial development. This summary measure is used to estimate nonlinear growth equations. The empirical findings did not provide significant evidence of nonlinearity in the finance-growth relationship. Financial development has no significant effect on economic growth regardless of the level of inflation. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	A story of trade-induced industrializationWe offer a simple variant of the standard Heckscher-Ohlin Model that explains how a developing country, by opening up to trade with a large capital-abundant economy, can be induced to shift resources into more capital-intensive production than that which it was producing in autarky. As a result, it experiences a rise in its return to capital and, if capital is internationally mobile, both an increase in its capital stock and an increase in trade. These results arise in a model in which both a traditional and a modern sector can produce final goods that are perfect substitutes. The modern sector uses intermediate inputs that differ in their relative capital intensities, while being both more capital intensive than the traditional sector. The results of this model accord well with the experience of the Asian Tiger economies during the early decades of their export-oriented industrialization. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Net private capital flows and economic growth - the case of emerging Asian economiesThis article makes an exploratory empirical investigation into the relationship between net private capital flows and economic growth using a panel dataset from emerging Asian countries, namely South Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines, over the period 1980-2001. Overall, this article indicates that net private capital helps to promote economic growth for the countries in the sample. In addition, this article also supports the view that net private capital flows will better contribute to economic growth under a sound policy and economic environment. This article also seeks to improve the estimation results by controlling for reverse causality as an econometric method that can control, for reverse causality is very important to examining the relationship between net private capital flows and economic growth. To tackle this issue, this article employs the Generalized Method of Moments (GMM) estimation technique, which is an econometric technique that can handle the reverse causality using the lagged explanatory variables as instruments. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Past and future of the labor force in emerging Asian economiesThis paper investigates the determinants of past changes in the labor force of 12 emerging Asian countries, and attempts to make projections of the labor force in those countries for the period 2010-2030. Results from the regression analysis indicate that the labor force has grown faster than the population, has an inverted U-shape relationship with per capita gross domestic product, and is smaller in more capital-intensive countries. Using extrapolation, the paper predicts that the labor force will increase in all 12 economies during the first 2 decades of the period 2010-2030, but will eventually decline in the People's Republic of China; Hong Kong, China; the Republic of Korea; Singapore; and Taipei, China. The paper also makes projections of the unemployment rate and the average working hours in those economies. ⓒ 2010 by Asian Development Bank.
2010	The role of fiscal policy in rebalancing developing Asia's growthRebalancing growth toward domestic demand has emerged as a key postcrisis challenge for sustaining developing Asia's rapid growth in the medium and long term. The central objective of this paper is to explore the role of fiscal policy in the region's rebalancing process. What matters most for rebalancing are specific fiscal measures tailored to each country's unique circumstances. In this context, the paper examines the potential contribution of fiscal policy to rebalancing growth in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, and Singapore. As expected, the nature of fiscal measures that can promote rebalancing differs substantially across the four countries and depends on the nature of the rebalancing process in each country. ⓒ 2010 by Asian Development Bank.
2010	United States, Japanese, and Korean FDI and intra-east Asian tradeThis paper documents the growing importance of intra-East Asian trade of parts and components. Our empirical analysis shows that foreign direct investment (FDI) does play an important and independent role in facilitating the trade of parts and components in East Asia. This is true for FDI from all three source countries: the United States Japan, and South Korea. Furthermore, our empirical studies show that compared with U.S. and Korean FDI, FDI from Japan has a particularly strong influence on trade in parts and components as well as trade in capital goods. One policy implication is that economies need to improve their physical infrastructure as well as the quality of their institutions to integrate further into the East Asian production network. ⓒ 2010 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2010	East Asian childbearing patterns and policy developmentsChildbearing behavior in East Asian countries has changed rapidly during the past half century from an average of five to seven children per family, to replacement-level fertility, and subsequently to unprecedentedly low levels, the lowest in the world. This article analyzes fertility trends in Hong Kong, Japan, singapore, south Korea, and Taiwan using cohort fertility data and methods, then examines social and economic causes of the childbearing trends, and surveys policies pursued to reverse the fertility trends. Postponement of childbearing started in the 1970s with continuously fewer delayed births being " recuperated," which resulted in ultra-low fertility. A rapid expansion of education and employment among women in a patriarchal environment has generated a stark dilemma for women who would like to combine childbearing with a career. Policy responses have been slow, with a more serious attempt to address issues in recent years. Thus far public and private institutions are not devoting sufficient attention to generating broad social change supportive of parenting. ⓒ 2010 The Population Council, Inc.
2010	China's penetration of the Korean market: Stylized facts and welfare effectChina's penetration of the world market has been impressive. This paper uses highly disaggregated Korean import data (from 1992 to 2008) to examine China's penetration of the Korean market in the context of the composition of value (the extensive and intensive margins) and the product type (homogeneous and differentiated) in trade. The increase in Chinese imports has been attributed to the rapid increase in the import of new products (the extensive margin) and of existing products (the intensive margin). However, the growth rate of new products decelerated in the 2000s. The growth in the intensive margin was due to quantity, not price. Chinese imports to Korea did not improve over the period in terms of quality. Although Chinese products became cheaper, they were more differentiated over time. Welfare gains were realized through the expanded introduction of new products from China. However, much of the gains from Korea's Chinese product import boom were realized in earlier years (1992-2000) because even though imported products became more differentiated, the increase in the extensive margin was lower in more recent years (2001-2008). ⓒ 2010 The Authors China & World Economy ⓒ 2010 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2010	Foreign debt, foreign direct investment and volatilityWe investigate how foreign debt and foreign direct investment (FDI) affect the growth and welfare of a stochastically growing small open economy. First, we find that foreign debt influences the growth of domestic wealth by lowering the cost of capital, while FDI affects the country's welfare by providing an additional source of permanent income. Second, a decline in domestic investment may improve domestic welfare as FDI replaces the gap. Even when the welfare deteriorates, its magnitude is mitigated, leaving more room for discretionary fiscal policy. Third, a fiscal policy aimed to stabilize domestic output fluctuations needs to be conducted not to crowd out the welfare benefit of FDI too much. Fourth, an economy with both types of foreign capital experiences wider welfare swings by external volatility shocks than the one with foreign debt alone, while the welfare effects from domestic volatility shocks are mitigated. The welfare effects of fiscal shocks are much smaller with both types of foreign capital. Lastly, the first-best labor income tax covers the government absorption by the labor's share of total output, and the capital income tax covers the rest. Investment is penalized or subsidized depending on the social marginal cost-gain differential. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Heterogeneity in ability and inheritance, disparities, and developmentThis paper investigates the impact of income inequality on economic growth. A two-period overlapping generations model is developed where agents are heterogeneous in innate abilities and inheritance. In the first period, they receive their inheritance and their abilities are revealed. There are only two types of abilities: high and low. Individuals decide on their education level, and divide their inheritance between spending on education and saving. In the second period, individuals supply their labor and allocate the labor income and the return to their saving between consumption and bequests to their offsprings. Initial capital stock is owned entirely by the capitalists. In this context, a more equal distribution of income enhances economic growth if the economy is lower than a threshold capital-labor ratio, while income inequality has an insignificant effect above this threshold. The predictions of the model are tested empirically using the Hansen (1999) threshold estimation. The results, using a panel of 70 countries for the period 1971-1999, suggest that there is a statistically significant threshold income per capita, below which the coefficient on the relationship between inequality and economic growth is significantly negative and above which the estimate is not significant. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	The transmission of us business cycles to the Canadian EconomyAs the substantial share of the Canadian trade occurs with the United States, one would expect that the fluctuations in US macroeconomic aggregates are rapidly transmit- ted to the Canadian economy. Specifically, the transmission should occur through changes in the flow of goods and financial assets. However, the standard general equilibrium models fail to show such a relationship. In this paper, I consider a small open-economy model taking the fluctuations of US variables as given and explicitly incorporating the flows of intermediate goods and financial assets. The simulation results show that the model can reproduce the actual data reasonably well when the trade share of intermediate goods is properly calibrated and the flow of financial asset is absent. That is, transmission does occur through trade in goods but not through assets. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Impact of regional economic integration in East AsiaThe current study evaluates the economy wide impact of trade liberalization in the ASEAN region along with China, Japan and Korea (ASEAN+3) by the year 2020 using the GTAP framework. The study also assesses the environmental impact of the trade liberalization in the region focusing on the seven environmental indicators (CO2, CH4, N2O, BOD,COD,SuspendedSolidandIndustrialWaste).Theresultshowsthatthecountriesunder agreement (ASEAN+3) will benefit with increased output, expansion of trade and welfare due to trade reforms. Further, the integration will increase the global welfare, although the regions not under agreement in the world will show a decline in output growth. Vietnam will be gaining with the highest output growth among the ASEAN region; however, the impact on the environment would not be favourable. The environmental impact reveals a mixed outcome for participating countries under the agreement. The paper provides useful insight in pursuing greater trade liberalization among the countries under the study. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	South Korea as an emerging donor: Challenges and changes on its entering OECD/DACSouth Korea's official development assistance (ODA) has been increasing rapidly and will continue to do so. Korea is one of the few countries which have successfully transitioned from a recipient to a donor. It became a member of DAC (development assistance committee), OECD in November 2009. Korea's ODA policy, along with its growth in quantity, is at a crossroads for the enhancement of its quality. Discussions and debates are going on regarding the reforms in Korea's ODA activities, and this paper examines key issues raised. It first reviews the past and present of Korea's ODA, and identifies major characteristics including a low ODA/GNI ratio, a high percentage of concessional loans compared to grants, a high portion of tied aid, regional bias and a relatively large number of recipients. The paper argues that those characteristics arise from a lack of consensus on some fundamental issues like the objective of ODA, positioning of Korea's ODA as an emerging donor and the nature of aid to North Korea. We also argue that a shift of ODA policy is required to promote reform, based on a thorough reflection on the role of ODA in the alleviation of poverty and promoting sustainable development in developing countries, rather than serving as an economic tool. ⓒ 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2010	Improving wto dispute settlement rules: Lessons from the Korea-China garlic disputeWe analyze the garlic dispute between Korea and China with the aim of exploring the improved WTO dispute settlement rules that could apply to disputes where WTO accession applying developing countries are involved in. After examining the background of the dispute, we analyze it from both the negotiation and WTO rules aspect. Then, we suggest policy recommendations, taking into account existing rules' limitations in dealing with disputes between a WTO Member and an accession applicant developing country. The recommendations are the introduction of the transitory dispute settlement rules covering disputes with accession applicants and the application of certain negotiation principles such as the standstill principle. ⓒ 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2010	Prospects for closer economic cooperation in Northeast AsiaIn contrast to developments in other world regions, efforts to institutionalize regional economic cooperation in East Asia have been weak. Though Southeast Asian economies have taken action toward trade liberalization (ASEAN Free Trade Area), the major economies of the region such as China, Japan, and Korea have not been part of any formal trade groupings until recently. However, given the slow pace of progress within AFTA and the importance of the Northeast Asian countries in terms of weight in the Asian economy, a de facto Northeast Asian economic cooperation is a necessary condition for East Asian integration. This paper investigates the substance of recent economic cooperation in Northeast Asia. The trilateral economic cooperation is analyzed through examination of trade and direct investment links for 1990-2004, and estimation of selected determinants of direct investment, in particular the relationship between trade and FDI. Estimation results suggest that the main driving forces for direct investment outflows from the source country have been the falling-off of exchange rate risk, the level of the nominal bilateral exchange rates, growth rate of the recipient country, and the per capita GDP gap between source and host countries. Bilateral trade has been shown to be statistically insignificant. ⓒ 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2010	Export relationships among China, Japan, and South KoreaThis paper examines trades and trade relationships among China, Japan, and South Korea. It shows that China possesses a large comparative advantage in labor-intensive products, while Japan and Korea maintain large comparative advantages in capital-intensive products. Using quarterly data from 1981 to 2001, the paper evaluates the effect of yen depreciation on the exports of China and South Korea. Our empirical results prove a positive impact of depreciation of yen on China's exports but a negative impact on Korea's exports. This finding suggests that Japan is competing with South Korea in terms of exports, but not with China. ⓒ 2010 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2010	Efficiency and its determinants in pharmaceutical industries: Ownership, R&amp;D and scale economyThe purpose of this article is to measure the efficiency of pharmaceutical firms and identify their determinants using Korean and American samples from 1992 to 2004. We document some stylized facts in the patterns and sources of efficiency change in Korean and American pharmaceutical firms. The evidence shows that ownership structure can substantially influence the efficiency of pharmaceutical firms. Especially, institutional ownership rate affects corporate efficiencies negatively, corroborating the myopic institutional investor hypothesis. The hypothesis is supported by both Korean and American samples. However, we find evidence that foreign ownership in Korea promotes efficiency of pharmaceutical firms. It is shown that R&D intensity is positively related to contemporaneous largest ownership rate and prior foreign ownership rate in Korean pharmaceutical firms. In contrast, little evidence is found on the relationship between ownership structure and R&D intensity in the American pharmaceutical industry. These empirical results are robust even after we check the causal links among efficiency, R&D and ownership. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Inflation and economic growth in ASEAN-5, Japan and South KoreaThe objective of this paper is to ascertain whether any trade-off exists between inflation and economic growth in the founding members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN-5) namely Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines and Indonesia and in Japan and South Korea. This in turn could form a basis for addressing the question of whether these countries or a subset of them could sustainably engage in some monetary cooperation with one another, from a macroeconomic vantage point. It is a concern that countries with a predilection for economic growth may sacrifice the objective of price stability. High rates of inflation could in turn disrupt the debt and foreign exchange markets with region-wide effects. Thus, the robustness or sustainability of any regional monetary cooperation such as the liquidity enhancement or reserve pooling mechanism may also hinge on the ability of subscribing nations to contain their domestic rates of inflation. The purpose of this paper is met by integrating the Philips curve framework with Okun's theory. Quarterly data of these countries spanning generally from 1991 through 2006/7 are mobilized for the purpose. The empirical results suggest that only a nominal trade-off exists between economic growth and inflation in Singapore, South Korea and Thailand after the 1997/98 Asian financial crisis years while none in the other countries. In the wake of these findings, one might infer that monetary cooperation is sustainable amongst these East Asian economies.
2010	An emergence of a common currency area in the selected East Asian economies: A revisitThe study attempts to re-investigate the possibility of emergence of a single currency area in East Asian (EA) countries by comparing both pre- and post-financial crisis periods. Using variance decomposition and impulse analyses, we investigated whether the selected EA economies Hong Kong, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Singapore are heavily segmented or instead integrated by focusing on the three different shocks, namely global-, regional-, and country-specific shocks. This paper finds that most economies could be described as heavily segmented, especially during the pre-crisis period (before July 1997). However, over time, the degree of segmentation experienced by some of these economies has declined significantly, particularly that of Hong Kong, Korea, and Singapore. The analyses also indicate that few economies, especially Indonesia and the Philippines, are being influenced by the performance of the Japanese economic growth to a greater extent than they were previously. ⓒ 2010 World Scientific Publishing Company.
2010	Financial development and economic growth in South Korea: An application of smooth transition error correction analysisThis article investigates the influences of financial development on economic growth for South Korea. The analysis is performed using an error correction model and a nonlinear smooth transition error correction technique. Empirical results from the cointegration test reveal that there is a long-run equilibrium relationship among financial development and economic growth. We also demonstrate that the nonlinear specification is more appropriate than the linear model and confirm the presence of nonlinearity in the aggregate output. Furthermore, we find that the short-run effect of financial development on economic growth is unstable despite the positive long-term effect. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Trust formation in Korean new product alliances: How important are pre-existing social ties?The focus of this study is on the nature and influence of social connections versus other relational mechanisms on trust formation in an emerging Asian economy. We examine the role of communication quality, perceived fairness, and pre-existing social relationships for the formation of trust in 47 vertical new product development alliances in South Korea. The empirical results indicate a relatively minor importance of pre-existing social ties vis-a-vis communication quality and fairness for the development of trust. Contrary to widespread perceptions, pre-existing social ties do not appear to directly contribute to establishing trust with external alliance partners in Korea. Multiple explanations are offered for this unexpected finding. Instead, existing social relationships moderate the importance of fairness for trust formation. When conducting partnerships with Korean firms, managers should focus more on a quality communication and fair behavior when trust formation is the objective, than on social connections. ⓒ 2008 Springer Science+Business Media, LLC.
2010	From Washington Consensus to BeST Consensus for world developmentWhile the set of liberalising and fiscally conservative development precepts dubbed the 'Washington Consensus' are now discredited as a tool for development, there is as yet no widely adopted or accepted alternative other than references to the 'East Asian model'. In this paper, we distil the essence of the experience of East Asia-of Japan initially, then of Korea and Taiwan, and now of China-in a set of flexible precepts that we suggest underpin the policies and strategies pursued with success by these East Asian economies. In the spirit of proposing an alternative to the Washington Consensus, we suggest that these precepts-pragmatic and known to work-be dubbed the Beijing-Seoul-Tokyo Consensus (or BeST Consensus for development). The essence of this consensus is its focus on capability building, on dynamic transitions from one stage to the next, and on building an institutional platform to capture latecomer effects. We outline what this BeST Consensus might be and discuss why it is that its elements appear to work so well; and whether they can still be applied in the world of 21st-century conditions. ⓒ 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ 2010 Crawford School of Economics and Government, The Australian National University and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2010	Bankruptcy laws and entrepreneur- friendlinessUsing bankruptcy laws as a case of formal institutions, we show how formal institutions impact entrepreneurship development. Historically, bankruptcy laws usually have been harsh. Recently, many governments have realized that entrepreneur-friendly bankruptcy laws can not only lower exit barriers, but also lower entry barriers for entrepreneurs. Since bankruptcy laws are not uniform around the world, it is important to understand how they differ in their friendliness to entrepreneurs. This article focuses on six dimensions of entrepreneur-friendliness: (1) the availability of a reorganization bankruptcy option, (2) the time spent on bankruptcy procedures, (3) the cost of bankruptcy procedures, (4) the opportunity to have a fresh start in liquidation bankruptcy, (5) the opportunity to have an automatic stay of assets during reorganization bankruptcy, and (6) the opportunity for entrepreneurs and managers to remain on the job after filing for bankruptcy. In an effort to cover both developed and emerging economies and to draw on geographically diverse examples, we use data from Australia, Canada, Chile, Finland, Hong Kong, Japan, Norway, Peru, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, the United States, and other countries to illustrate these differences. Overall, this article contributes to the institution-based view of entrepreneurship by highlighting the important role that formal institutions such as bankruptcy laws play behind entrepreneurship development around the world. ⓒ 2009 Baylor University.
2010	A re-examination of german government approval and economic performance: Is there a stable relationship between them?This paper studies the stability between the government approval and macroeconomic series for Germany during 1977-2004 allowing structural breaks. We first execute traditional cointegration tests without breaks, and the results reveal weak evidence of a link between the political and economic variables. However, using Hansen's (1992) tests for parameter instability suggest that such a relationship between politics and economy may be unstable. After allowing for the structural breaks in the series and conducting Gregory and Hansen's (1996) cointegration test, we find that a clear cointegrated relationship undoubtedly exists between approval rates and macroeconomics; we discover that some events indeed affect the government's popularity. Overall, once we locate structural breakpoints, such as when the West German government was succeeded by Helmut Kohl in 1982, then we begin to distinguish the actual cointegrated relationships between the approval rate of government and macroeconomics before and after the structural breakpoint. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Mixed oligopoly and foreign direct investmentBy using a mixed duopoly model, this paper analyses the effects of domestic firmownership status on foreign direct investment decisions. It is shown that, although public ownership can be understood as a protectionist device, foreign direct investment can only be an equilibrium strategy if the level of privatization of the domestic economy is high enough. Furthermore it is proved that foreign direct investment is harmful from a home welfare point of view. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Expansionary fiscal contractions: Re-evaluating the danish caseThe Expansionary Fiscal Contraction (EFC) hypothesis predicts that a major fiscal consolidation leads to an economic expansion under certain circumstances. We test this hypothesis, and the implied non-linear responses of the economy to large and small changes in fiscal policy, using data from the 1983 Danish fiscal reform. We use a structural VAR/event study methodology following Blanchard and Perotti (2002) that explicitly allows us to distinguish between normally marginal changes in fiscal policy and comprehensive fiscal reforms.We find that 'marginal changes' in fiscal policy (expenditure and tax changes) have the expected Keynesian effects on output and consumption. However, we find no evidence that the large fiscal consolidation in Denmark slowed the economy after controlling for a host of exogenous shocks and business cycle effects. Rather, we find some support for the hypothesis that the exogenous fiscal contraction in Denmark was a credible regime shift and, together with other reforms undertaken at the time, increased both private consumption and aggregate output. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	Information technology, organizational transformation and productivity growth: An examination of the Brynjolfsson-Hitt propositionThis study investigates what happened to productivity growth during the Information Technology (IT) revolution in an IT-driven economy, Korea. To this end, we have decomposed the source of productivity growth into technological change, technical efficiency and scale economies using a stochastic frontier function and examined how the composition of productivity growth has changed with different phases of IT developments. We have used panel data that is comprised of 4022 firms from 1996 to 2000. We have found that Korean firms have been quick to embrace organizational restructuring to adapt to a new business environment brought about by IT, which seems to be the major source of the success of Korean firms. We have also found that: (i) there is no substantial difference in productivity gains between IT-producing firms and IT-using firms; (ii) productivity growth is more robust to business cycles in an IT-driven economy than in the traditional economy; and (iii) efficiency improvement attributed to organizational transformation plays a greater role in productivity growth as IT applications become more widespread. ⓒ 2010 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ 2010 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2010	Nature, markets and state response: The drought of 1939 in Japan and KoreaLarge areas of Northeast Asia experienced drought in 1939. Agricultural production in Korea decreased significantly, but the drought did not cause famine in Japan despite its dependence on rice imports from Korea. The paper analyses the impact of the 1939 drought on the markets for rice and electricity in Japan. The authorities were ill-prepared for such a disaster but willing to use it for the purpose of covering for other problems. The drought thus accelerated the move of Japan's economic system towards a managed economy. A lower total rainfall in Japan in 1940 did not generate similar problems, suggesting that the broader political, economic, and social context is crucial to the identification of short-term climatic fluctuations as crises. ⓒ 2010 The Author. Journal compilation ⓒ Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd and the Economic History Society of Australia and New Zealand 2010.
2010	Financial liberalisation and the South Korean financial crisis: An analysis of expert opinionThis paper provides a novel analysis of the South Korean financial crisis drawing on the findings of a unique survey of IMF/World Bank and South Korean experts. The survey reveals that over-optimism and inadequate recognition of financial risks inadvertently led to excessive risk-taking by Korean financial intermediaries. It also indicates that the sources of over-optimistic assessments of East Asian economies were mainly to be found outside East Asia and included the Bretton Woods Institutions themselves, Western media and analysts. In Korea, weaknesses in risk management were the result of (i) lack of expertise in relation to handling the risks associated with capital flows, and (ii) disincentives to manage risks emanating from a relatively successful history of government-provided safety nets for both industry and banking. Financial liberalisation widened risk-taking opportunities, by allowing Korean financial institutions to both borrow from and lend to institutions outside Korea. It also created additional disincentives for managing risk by intensifying competition and eroding bank franchise values. Weaknesses in prudential regulation allowed bank portfolios to become riskier, especially in terms of increased liquidity risk as a result of maturity mismatches between dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. The liquidity crisis, which followed the re-assessment of the South Korean economy by international lenders in late 1997, triggered a full-blown financial crisis because of the absence of an effective international lender of last resort. ⓒ 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd. Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2010	Sectoral systems of innovation and productivity catch-up: Determinants of the productivity gap between Korean and Japanese firmsThis article attempts to identify the determinants of total factor productivity  catch-up by Korean firms compared with that of Japanese firms. The degree of catch-up is measured in terms of the TFP gap between each Korean firm and the industry average of the Japanese firms in each sector. Regressions are then employed to establish the determinants of the TFP gap or catch-up. These determinants are classified into two groups: sectoral- and firm-level variables. Sectoral-level variables, drawn from the sectoral innovation system literature, test the hypothesis that catch-up is more likely to occur in certain sectors than in others. It is found that TFP catch-up by Korean firms is more likely to occur in sectors where technologies are more explicit and easily embodied in imported equipment. This discovery helps explain why the TFP of Korean firms is now close to, or even higher than those of Japanese firms in the electronics sector, and why TFP gaps still remain after some catch-up in the automobile sectors associated with more tacit knowledge regimes. Second, the degree of the sectors' top firm dominance is positively related to the TFP catch-up, implying that catch-up is more likely to occur in sectors with more monopolistic market structures. It is also shown that firms in a monopolistic market structure should be subjected to the world market discipline to attain better performance in the productivity catch-up. Third, sector-level variables only affect international TFP catch-up, whereas firm-level variables determine intranational catch-up. Important results remain consistent in some robustness tests using different proxies for sectoral variables and catch-up as measured in labor productivity, as well as in the results obtained from using period average variables rather than yearly variables. ⓒ The Author 2010. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Associazione ICC. All rights reserved.
2010	Information and Communications Technology Effects on East Asian ProductivityThis study empirically assesses the effect of information and communications technology (ICT) on productivity of ASEAN5 (Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand) plus 3 (China, Japan and South Korea). Analytical interpretations in this article have successfully corrected the defects of the predecessor study through a statistical estimation by way of arriving at the coefficients of the explanatory variables being used by econometric approach. A second step in a routine procedure has effectively plugged the parameters of the variables into a modified model in order to calculate the growth rates of productivity indicators being used by growth accounting. The examination envisages a key finding that on the productivity growth of the aforesaid ASEAN5, China has been 'input-driven' while, on the other hand, Japan and Republic of Korea productivity growths have been shown as 'productivity-driven', as reflected from the comparison among the results of total factor productivity growth. The study also exposes a fact that the impact of ICT has been positive in the countries under considerations. ⓒ 2010 Springer Science + Business Media, LLC.
2010	Effective states and agriculture: East asian experienceIf the state does not extend its institutional structures into the countryside to collect revenue, effective government may not reach much further than the area around the capital. In this case, resources must be extracted from the countryside indirectly to enhance the profitability of the formal sector in urban areas, creating substantial rents, which then can be taxed. The result is a limited state that lacks political development and engages in policies damaging to growth. The experiences of Japan, Taiwan, and Korea show that the converse is also true: investing in rural infrastructure and productivity can lead to a more effective state. ⓒ 2010 Canadian Journal of Development Studies. All rights reserved.
2010	Economic integration in asia: Quo vadis Malaysia?Neo-liberal globalization has accelerated the space of economic integration in Asia,particularlybetweentherisingsuperpowersofChinaandIndiaandotherAsiannations. In this connection, this paper examines the degree of economic integration between Malaysia and the rapidly developing economies of China and India on the one hand and the United States and Japan on the other. This study shows that Malaysia is more integrated with China and India than with the United States and Japan. It is not that global integration is becoming less significant in Malaysia but that regional integration is becoming more deterministic. ⓒ 2010 Korea International Economic Association.
2010	From Kuwait to Korea: The diversification of Sri Lankan labour migrationFor decades, the stereotypical Sri Lankan migrant worker has been a low-wage female domestic servant in Saudi Arabia or Lebanon. But the stereotype no longer represents the reality: since the late 1990s nearly half of the migrant workforce has been male, and many migrants are opting for new destinations in Europe and Asia rather than the Middle East. The increasing heterogeneity of the migrant workforce underscores the need for a better understanding of the relationships between gender, occupation, destination and migration outcomes This paper reviews recent trends in Sri Lankan migration and uses data from a household survey to profile rural migrant-sending households and investigate differences in socio-economic characteristics, destinations and occupations, remitting behaviour and the role of remittances in the household economy. ⓒ 2010 Taylor & Francis.
2010	Private tutoring and demand for education in South KoreaSunwoong Kim examines the importance of private tutoring in South Korea in relation to the entire education system. The amount spent on private tutoring has been rising faster than the growth of income, despite the fact that the government has continuously increased the amount of fiscal resources per student. It has tried various public policy measures to curb the practice of private tutoring, including outright banning private tutoring in the 1980s. Korea has changed dramatically during the past five decades in terms of educational expansion and the level of economic development, moving from being a very poor country to being an advanced country. The real or perceived advantage of elite universities in a very hierarchical higher education system has been strong enough to create continuing demand for private tutoring. This kind of private tutoring demand would be particularly acute for academically strong students capable of being admitted to the prestigious universities.
2009	Foreign direct investment by the Republic of Korea in the People's Republic of ChinaThe main purpose of this paper is to investigate the patterns and performance of outward foreign direct investment from the Republic of Korea to the People's Republic of China using five performance measures of the subsidiaries and four explanatory variables. The explanatory variables have close correlations with the export to sales ratio, the local management ratio, and the local procurement ratio (three performance measures selected to reflect subsidiaries' contribution to the host country). however, no clear relationship was found between explanatory variables and financial performance measures such as operating profit on sales and net profit on sales. In terms of strength of the relationship, the number of years a subsidiary has been in operation was found to have a consistently positive and significant relationship with the export to sales ratios in the three manufacturing industries examined. In light of the major findings, an important aspect is that since the characteristics of subsidiaries may affect performance in different (sometimes opposite) ways, policymakers should establish and implement foreign direct investment policies in a differentiated and targeted manner. ⓒ 2009 Asian Development Bank.
2009	Structural breaks in the interest rate of selected East-Asian countriesThis paper explores the timing of structural breaks in the interest rate of seven East-Asian countries namely Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Thailand. The Sup-Wald test proposed by Vogelsang (1997) is used to analyze quarterly data on the money market rate, Treasury bill rate and call money rate over the period of 1981-2006. A significant structural shift is found during the 1997 Asian Financial crisis for Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand. The interest rate of Singapore did not experience any structural change. The interest rate of Japan shifted significantly in the early 1990s and the interest rate of Philippines in 1984 following monetary adjustment in response to crisis in the economy of these countries.
2009	Inter-industry gender wage gaps by knowledge intensity: Discrimination and technology in KoreaA new gender wage gap decomposition methodology is introduced, which does not suffer from identification problems caused by unobserved nondiscriminatory wage structure. The methodology is used to measure the relative size of Korean gender wage gaps, from 1994 to 2000 across industries, differentiated by industrial knowledge intensity, where knowledge intensity is the extent to which industries produce or employ hightechnology products. Korea represents an important case study, since it possesses one of the fastest growing knowledge-intensive economies among industrialized countries. Empirical results indicate that over this period, discrimination (the unexplained portion of the gender wage gaps) in Korea was statistically smaller in knowledge-intensive industries than in industries with low knowledge intensity. Also, discrimination was declining on average over the period. This suggests that continued growth in knowledge-intensive industries in Korea may lead to further declines in the overall gender gap. ⓒ 2009 Taylor & Francis.
2009	House prices and the stance of monetary policy: The case of KoreaThis paper is an empirical investigation on whether the Bank of Korea should respond to the housing price developments in conducting monetary policy. For that aim, we construct a small scale empirical model of the Korean economy, simulate the estimated model with a set of alternative monetary policy rules, and compare the stabilization performances of those rules. There turns out to be ample room for further stabilization of inflation and output, if the central bank shifts from the historically conducted monetary policy rule to the optimal rule. The stabilization gains under the optimal rule, however, are not attributable to additional policy indicators (such as housing price inflation) the optimal rule involves. Rather, the optimal rule improves upon the historical one because the former takes a quite different reaction scheme toward the historical policy indicators. Moreover, as long as the Bank of Korea maintains appropriate reactions to the historical policy indicators, housing price inflation does not contain much extra information for further stabilization. ⓒ 2009 Institute of East and West Studies.
2009	An analysis of revisions to annual GDP estimates of six ADB regional membersThis paper analyzes the histories of revisions of official annual real gross domestic product (GDP) growth rates for six regional members of the Asian Development Bank (ADB)-People's Republic of China; India; Indonesia; Republic of Korea; Taipei,China; and Thailand-for the period 1990-2004 as computed from successive editions of ADB's flagship annual statistical publication, Key Indicators for Asia and the Pacific. A number of revisions indicators for each economy are computed. The results show that first published estimates of annual real GDP growth rates in all the six economies are revised upward 3 years later and in the latest period. Most of the six economies also experienced positive revisions to estimates of annual real GDP growth rates in the first, second, third, and latest years after their initial release. Revisions to first published estimates of annual real GDP growth rates a year later tend to be mostly small, although there are some outliers. In all the six economies, the size of the mean absolute revisions to the first published estimates of annual real GDP growth rates is nontrivial. All the six economies also have rather low relative mean absolute revisions to initial estimates of annual real GDP growth rates published a year later, implying that the first published estimates are generally robust for the purpose of assessing the current performance of these economies. The mean squared revisions for most of the six economies tend to be rather low. This implies that there may not be much volatility in the revisions to initial estimates of annual real GDP growth rates in these economies. Mean revisions in the first, second, third, and latest years in Indonesia are statistically significant, while the People's Republic of China and Taipei,China have mean revisions that are statistically significant for the latest period. ⓒ2009 by Asian Development Bank.
2009	Neo-liberal Korea and still developmentalist Japan: Myth or reality?In the "varieties of capitalism" debate, scholars have paid considerable attention to the question of whether Korea and Japan have left behind their interventionist political economy for neo-liberal reform. In this paper, we re-examine the scholarly consensus that Korea has become a neo-liberal state, while Japan has not changed much. On the basis of our comparison of the extent of the two countries' neo-liberal reforms using the "business systems framework" developed by Witt, we demonstrate that neo-liberal reforms observed in Korea and Japan are not substantially different enough to warrant the view that the two countries have taken divergent paths of institutional development. With this finding, we call for further empirical study, including the development and use of more qualitative data. We suggest that the future direction research should take on this issue in order to make theoretical contributions to the existing literature on institutional change and continuity in "non-liberal" capitalist countries. We do this by offering some methods in which future researchers could identify necessary and sufficient causes of Korea's and Japan's neo-liberal (or non-neo-liberal) shift. ⓒ 2009 Institute of East and West Studies.
2009	Housing prices and the role of speculation: The case of SeoulBetween June 1998 and March 2006, the price index of apartment housing in Seoul, Republic of Korea more than doubled, while fundamentals such as gross domestic product, wage, and population increased by less than 35%. This study examines the role of a rational speculative bubble in this price surge. We find that unobservable information explains part of the price volatility, and that a rational bubble proxy is a significant driver of prices. However, neither latent information nor rational bubble is enough to explain the recent housing price appreciation, even in conjunction with observable fundamentals. ⓒ 2008 by Asian Development Bank.
2009	How has asia fared in the global crisis? A tale of three countries: Republic of Korea, Philippines, and ThailandThe global economic crisis in 2008-2009 had varying impacts on economies in Asia and the Pacific. This paper studies the impacts of the global crisis, with emphasis on the labor market, on three Asian countries: Republic of Korea (Korea), Philippines, and Thailand. It develops a crisis index that measures the impacts of the crisis by comparing actual values of economic indicators during the crisis period (2008-2009) with counterfactual indicators derived from each country's pre-crisis (2001-2007) long-term trends. The study finds that all three countries were significantly affected by the crisis, but the severity and channels of these impacts varied widely: Thailand suffered the most in terms of reduced growth in gross domestic product, Korea suffered the worst in reduced employment, and Philippines' output was affected only in 2009. In the labor market, the study finds that the crisis led to significant job losses in all three countries and highlighted underlying problems, particularly Korea's problems with youth unemployment, and Philippines' and Thailand's vulnerable industrial sectors.
2009	The optimal structure of technology adoption and creation: Basic research vs. development in the presence of distance to frontierThis paper presents a theoretical model and empirical evidence to explain the observation that a country in which the level of technology approaches the technology frontier tends to rely more on technology creation than adoption, and to invest more in basic research than in development. The model shows that technology creation involves both basic and development research processes while technology adoption uses only the latter process. Thus, research and development  investment in our model involves three different processes: basic research in technology creation, development in technology creation, and development in technology adoption. The results suggest first, that the rate of growth is positively correlated with the level of basic research activities in the technology creation sector, if one country's technology gap with the technology frontier is small enough. Second, an increase in the efficiency of the education system for highly skilled workers raises the level of basic research and the rate of growth. Third, verifying these theoretical results, empirical analyses using panel data of Japan; Republic of Korea; and Taipei, China show that the narrower the technological distance to the frontier, the higher the growth effect of basic R&D, indicating that the share of basic R&D matters for economic growth. Last, these also show that the quality of tertiary education has a significantly positive effect on the productivity of R&D.
2009	Trade openness, structural change and total factor productivityThe impact of trade openness on growth of total factor productivity  is investigated. Given the differences in tradability of goods across sectors as well as the ongoing structural change, we examine whether trade openness has had a differential impact on TFP growth of the three main sectors of an economy. While the positive impact of openness on TFP growth for the aggregate economy is confirmed, openness has had no appreciable impact on the growth of TFP in the agricultural and industrial sectors. We find that the positive effect of openness on TFP growth for the economy as a whole was mostly due to the positive relationship between the two variables for the services sector. Further, we conclude that the lack of a general consensus in past studies could be due to their neglect of structural change and temporal factors when analyzing the trade-TFP nexus. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	An input-output analysis: Linkages versus leakagesResorting to input-output analysis, the relationships between production sectors are investigated. For such assessment, the distinction between imported and domestically supplied inputs, which has been disregarded so far in empirical analysis, is crucial. Besides an accurate measurement of domestic linkages, it also allows us to evaluate the importance of international trade in the production process. Moreover, the interaction between domestic linkages and leakages resulting from international trade can also be analysed. The study of such links improves our knowledge on the economic production structure and how it has evolved over time, which is essential for policy making. Using as a case study a small open European economy, the Portuguese one, we assess sectoral interdependence and trade effects for individual sectors as well as for the economy as a whole. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	Trade creation and diversion effects of Europe's regional liberalization agreementsAfter a short review of recent developments in gravity modeling and an overview of the liberalization agreements in Europe, this paper measures the trade creation and diversion effects of major European agreements based on the results of a correctly specified triple-indexed gravity model with bilateral fixed effects. Discussion of the resulting trade creation and diversion focuses on the role of partner and non-partner country characteristics including size and relative factor endowments, as well as date, reciprocity, industry coverage, and rate of liberalization characteristics of the agreement. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	How valid are long-term government plans? Technological forecasting of the Korean biotechnology industryThe biotechnology industry has the potential to add economic spillover effects to a national economy but heavy investment and systematic planning are required. In 2007, Korea started the second stage of an ambitious government-led program, Bio Vision 2016, which is aimed to create an extended market size of 60 billion U.S. dollars by 2016. But, our long-term forecasting techniques predict roughly 5.5 billion U.S. dollars in constant price by 2016. Considering both professional judgment and the degree of current Korean government policies toward heavy investments in the biotechnology industries, however, is crucial to produce an accurate forecast. Thus, after these adjustments, the forecast value of the market size increases from 13 billion to 33 billion nominal U.S. dollars, depending on the investment strategy choices. We explain how our long-term forecasting values are computed and discuss possible reasons for the discrepancy between those prediction values. Also, we provide policy debates on whether the government goals are fully achievable. ⓒ 2009 Society for Policy Modeling.
2009	The impact of neo-liberalism on South Korea's public pension: A political economy of pension reformThis article examines the recent Korean pension reforms from a political economy perspective. It argues that these reforms are of particular interest because, unlike major pay-as-you-go pension schemes in Europe, the Korean pension scheme is a funded one and, therefore, is subject to market exposure. Also in contrast to the problems that public pension reforms have encountered in European and other OECD countries, especially 'blame avoidance', the more radical Korean reforms were implemented without significant challenge or resistance. First of all, the National Pension Scheme is described prior to the 1997 Asian economic crisis. Then the impact of this crisis on the Korean welfare state and, especially, its pension system are analysed. The main part of the article consists of a political economy of the pension reform process, in which the key roles of the international governmental organizations and the domestic neo-liberal policy elite are pinpointed. This neo-liberal ideology was critical in developing and sustaining an influential discourse on the 'crisis' in Korea's national pension fund. The article concludes by arguing, against the neo-liberal tide, for the inclusion of a pay-as-you-go element in the national pension in order to tackle escalating poverty in old age. ⓒ 2009 The Author(s). Journal Compilation ⓒ 2009 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2009	Do capital inflows matter to asset prices? The case of KoreaIn the present paper, we investigate whether capital flows induce domestic asset price hikes in the case of Korea. This issue is relevant for crisis-hit economies trying to prevent a boom-bust cycle as well as in the formulation of macroeconomic policy objectives in emerging market economies. Korea has recently experienced large capital inflows, in particular a surge in portfolio inflows. Furthermore, asset prices, including stock prices, land prices and nominal and real exchange rates, have also appreciated. The empirical results, obtained using a vector autoregression model, suggest that capital inflow shocks have caused stock prices but not land prices to increase. The effects on the nominal and real exchange rates have been limited, which relates to the accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2009	Optimal structure of technology adoption and creation: Basic versus development research in relation to the distance from the technological frontierMany economists maintain that in order to advance economic growth Asian countries should focus more on basic research than on technology adoption, and more on the supply of skilled workers than the supply of unskilled workers. In this context, this paper presents a theoretical model and empirical evidence to explain the observation that a country in which the level of technology approaches the technology frontier tends to rely more on technology creation than adoption, and invest more in basic research than in development. The model shows that technology creation involves both basic and development research processes, whereas technology adoption uses only the latter process. Therefore, R&D investment in our model involves three different processes: basic research in technology creation, development in technology creation, and development in technology adoption. The results suggest first that the rate of growth is positively correlated with the level of basic research activities in the technology creation sector, if a country's technology gap with the technology frontier is small enough. Second, an increase in the efficiency of the education system for highly skilled workers raises the level of basic research and the rate of growth. Third, verifying these theoretical results, empirical analyses using panel data from Korea, Japan and Taipei, China show that the narrower the distance to the technological frontier, the higher the growth effect of basic R&D, which indicates that the share of basic R&D matters for economic growth. Finally, the results also show that the quality of tertiary education has a significantly positive effect on the productivity of R&D. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2009	Scale effects, savings and factor shares in a human capital-based growth model with physical capital accumulationUsing a balanced-growth model with physical andhuman capital accumulation, we analyze quantitatively the long-run effects of changes in the savings rate and in income distribution (i.e. the shares of physical and human capital in income) on investment in skill acquisition, income growth, and the ratio of human to physical capital. In the long run, the ratio of physical to human capital is constant, so that these two factor inputs can grow at the same rate.This rate is a function of the economy's exogenous technological and preference parameters and depends positively on the share of skills invested in human capital formation. We also find that population growth is neither necessary nor conducive to economic growth, that the level of real income depends linearly on the level of human capital and that it is independent of population size. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	Appropriation, formal and informal sectors, and efficient endowment distributionBy adding an informal sector whose output is not subject to appropriative interactions and assuming complementarity in the inputs for market production, this paper investigates how possible asymmetries in conflict affect the allocation of resources. It is shown that when the existing gap in relative appropriative skills is being closed, more resources are allocated to appropriative activities in the economy. We are, in this case, more likely to see a reduction in market activities but an increase in home activities. A poorer party is a natural producer rather than a natural fighter, which is the usual characterization of a less endowed party in the conflict analysis. By conducting a welfare analysis, this paper shows that a market-output-maximizing initial distribution of resources endowment is such that when one party has a comparative advantage in market production over appropriation, its initial fraction of total resource endowment should be greater than its relative productivity in market production. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	Trade, remittances, institutions, and economic growthThis paper empirically investigates the role of trade, remittances, and institutions in economic development in a large sample of developing countries using recently developed instruments for all these variables. Both cross-country (over 30 years) and dynamic panel data (over 5-year periods) regressions of growth rates on instrumented trade, remittances, and institutions provide evidence of a significant impact of trade, institutions, and remittances on growth. While institutions foster growth, remittances hamper it. The effect of trade on growth is positive in cross-sectional regressions but ambiguous in dynamic panel data regressions. These results are indicative of a more important role for trade in explaining growth in the very long run compared with over shorter horizons. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	Trade openness, capital flows and financial development in developing economiesThis paper examines the impactof trade openness and capital flows onfinancial development in developing countries using a dynamic panel GMM estimation technique. The empirical results reveal that trade openness and capital flows are statistically significant determinants of financial development. Simultaneous opening of both the trade and capital accounts also appear to have positive impacts on financial development. The evidence also suggests that openness leads to improved financial development through institutional quality and competition channels. However, the institutional channel outperforms competition in ensuring the positive effects of openness on financial market depth in developing countries. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	Testing long-run validity of purchasing power parity for selected emerging market economiesThis study presents an empirical analysis of purchasing power parity for 10 emerging market economies, namely Brazil, India, Indonesia, South Korea, Mexico, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, South Africa and Turkey. This is done by using co integration technique. Time series properties of nominal exchange rate and price series show that they are non stationary. The exchange rate and price series do not appear to be cointegrated for most of the countries. We reject the validity of purchasing power parity for Brazil, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, South Africa, South Korea and Turkey, but we can accept it for Mexico and Peru. ⓒ 2009 Taylor & Francis.
2009	Going West? Spatial polarization of the North Korean port systemThis paper analyzes North Korean ports in light of existing models of port system evolution. It reviews the economic and political factors shaping port concentration in developed, developing, and socialist countries. A database on vessel movements allows for the analysis of individual North Korean port traffic by total capacity circulated, cargo type, fleet nationality, immediate origin and destination, and berthing time. While ideological factors and military control hamper port modernization and trade openness, traffic concentration at the Pyongyang-Nampo gateway highlights the spatial polarization in the capital region at the expense of Eastern ports for which inland transport limitations and industrial decline have become major issues. The North Korean case only partly fits general models because traffic concentration occurs due to geopolitical isolation and internal limitations rather than economic and trade growth. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
2009	Industrial policy in an imperfect worldWe study industrial policy and its effectiveness in a model with both market and government failures. We introduce a public agency responsible for industrial policy into the model of Hausmann and Rodrik [Hausmann, R., Rodrik, D., 2003. Development as Self-Discovery. Journal of Development Economics 72, 603-633], and we assume that this agency has limited information and political motives. In an extension, we further allow entrepreneurs to engage in rent seeking activities. We find that industrial policies are ineffective if the public agency is poorly informed, but not necessarily so if it is highly politically motivated. Given a politically motivated public agency, industrial policies are effective if and only if the institutional setting ensures that such policies are modest, e.g. by restricting the agency's budget. Moreover, our model helps us to understand why the same industrial policies that have failed elsewhere have been relatively successful in South Korea and Taiwan. ⓒ 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2009	Security, nationalism and popular culture: Screening South Korea's uneasy identity in the early 2000sBy examining the cultural representations of the South Korean notion of the Self/Other in relation to its major traditional enemy - North Korea - this article aims to capture a picture of South Korea's discursive economy of the North, and to problematise the South Korean identities implicated in that economy in the early 2000s. To achieve these aims, this article focuses on representations of a successful popular South Korean film which was released in 2000, just a few months after the first inter-Korean summit: Joint Security Area JSA. By analytically reading JSA, it is revealed that, in South Korea, the traditional discursive practices based on the Cold War thinking have been eroded. For the South, the North is part of the Self (Korean-ness; love for the North as the same nation) and, at the same time, is an Other (South Korean-ness; contempt for the North as an inferior state). Related to this, South Korea appears to be the uneasy Self without a firm Other in between Korean-ness and South Korean-ness. ⓒ Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2009.
2009	Evaluation of Malaysian capital controls in the short, medium, and long runsThis paper uses monthly data starting from January 1993 until June 2005 to assess the effectiveness of capital controls in restoring the Malaysian economy as compared to the IMF programs in Indonesia, Korea, and Thailand. We analyse various aspects of the economy by employing time-shifted difference-in-difference estimation. To evaluate the effects in the short, medium, and long runs, this study takes into account one to six years of treatment periods. Our estimation results provide strong evidence in favor of capital controls as a more effective crisis solution than the IMF programs in the short and medium runs. ⓒ 2009 World Scientific Publishing Company.
2009	Legal liminality: The gender and labour politics of organising South Korea's irregular workforceIrregular employment (bij?nggyujik) has become the dominant form of employment in South Korea, with upwards of 70% of women employed in this sector. This transformation has not only affected the demographics of the labour market, but it has also fundamentally reshaped how unions can organise workers and build collective power. In particular, irregular workers are faced with a state of legal liminality in which workers are neither fully protected by nor fully denied the rights of formal employment, resulting in classification struggles over the terms and conditions of irregular employment. Drawing from recent cases, this paper discusses the limits of masculinised forms of labour militancy and the prospects for developing more inclusive forms of unionism across gender and employment status. Interrogating how workers and their collective organisations are challenging the 'legal liminality' associated with downgraded forms of irregular employment is crucial for understanding the new dynamics of economic marginality and social exclusion in Korea as well as in the broader global economy.
2009	Export-total factor productivity growth nexus in East Asian economiesDespite increasing interest in the relationship between trade and macro-economic performance in development economics, very limited studies have been conducted on the causal links between exports and productivity growth in Asian economies. This article examines empirically the interplay between exports and productivity growth for eight East Asian economies in a multivariate framework by applying bound tests and modified Wald tests. The results indicate that causality is bidirectional in the case of Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, while unidirectional from productivity to exports for Mainland China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. These findings provide little support for the conventional export-led growth hypothesis.
2009	The limits of studies in comparative development of East Asia and Latin America: The case of land reform and agrarian policiesThis paper critically examines the widespread belief that the early implementation of comprehensive land reforms prior to the industrialisation process, coupled with subsequent agrarian state policies channelling the intersectoral transfer of resources, has been a central determinant of East Asia's (mainly Taiwan's and South Korea's) outperformance of Latin America. We argue that, although those agrarian policies should certainly be part of any comparative investigation of the course of capitalist development in each of these two regions, they cannot explain their divergence. The paper contends that the respective scope and timing of agrarian policies has been an expression of the specific contradictions of the early industrialisation process in each region, rather than an autonomous determinant of the course of the latter. Based on insights derived from the Marxian critique of political economy, the paper shows that each region's respective agrarian policies have expressed the differential resolution of the opposition between the rate of profit (industrial capital) and ground-rent (landed property) in the import substituting industrialisation process. In so doing, the paper takes issue with the claim that timely land reforms in Taiwan and Korea have facilitated the subsequent successful turn to an export-oriented industrialisation strategy. An alternative account of the different developmental paths in East Asia and Latin America based on the unfolding of the Marxian 'law of value' on a world scale is also provided.
2009	Economic development and poverty reduction in Korea: Governing multifunctional institutionsCombining economic development and poverty reduction is a challenge for developing countries. In the search for mechanisms that integrate both goals, this article examines the Republic of Korea's development strategy, which transformed one of Asia's poorest nations into an industrialized country with low levels of poverty. The authors investigate the state-society nexus in which Korea's developmental state has operated and look at the role of governance for economic development, focusing especially on multifunctioning institutions performing for economic growth and poverty reduction. The article provides strategic suggestions for developing countries on managing effectively within institutional constraints and moving beyond a simple emphasis on good governance. ⓒ Institute of Social Studies 2009.
2009	Asia's national innovation systems: Institutional adaptability and rigidity in the face of global innovation challengesThis paper explores several features of, and changes in, innovation capacity in Asia. The growth of technology-based industries has been a critically important element of Asian industrial development and has required extensive institutional support for the diffusion of innovation and technological learning. As a number of Asian countries reach the global technological frontier they need to develop new capabilities for creating "radical" innovations in order to sustain their international competitiveness. Using the analytical frameworks of national innovation systems and varieties of capitalism, the paper reviews some systemic and environmental factors encouraging and constraining these developments. By referring to illustrative case studies of institutional evolution within Taiwan's national innovation system and technological entrepreneurship in Korea, the paper argues that whilst there are major developments in models of innovation support, emulating those found in liberal market economies, enduring cultural legacies can remain influential. It highlights the central importance of social as well as economic institutional adaptation. Some management and policy implications of this attribute are considered, and a future research agenda is proposed. ⓒ Springer Science + Business Media, LLC 2008.
2009	Evidence for an incipient decline in numbers of missing girls in China and IndiaThe apparently inexorable rise in the proportion of "missing girls" in much of East and South Asia has attracted much attention among researchers and policymakers. An encouraging trend was suggested by the case of South Korea, where child sex ratios (males to females under age 5) were the highest in Asia but peaked in the mid-1990s and normalized thereafter. Using census data, we examine whether similar trends have begun to manifest themselves in the two most populous countries of this region, China and India. The data indicate that child sex ratios are peaking in these countries, and in many subnational regions are beginning to trend toward lower, more normal values. This suggests that, with continuing economic and social development and vigorous public policy efforts to reduce son preference, the "missing girls" phenomenon could eventually disappear in Asia. ⓒ 2009 The Population Council, Inc.
2009	Value content and production networks in Southeast Asia: Application of afta and asean-plus-one FTA formulasRules of origin are an integral part of all trade rules. To be eligible for Common Effective Preferential Tariffs under the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) agreement, a product must satisfy the conditions relative to value content. The present paper seeks to calculate value content of industries in Southeast Asia, using the formula specified by the rules of origin in AFTA, the ASEAN-China FTA, the ASEAN-Korea FTA, and the ASEAN-Japan FTA. Moreover, the paper attempts to calculate true value content of industries by applying a simple technique of input-output analysis, and to estimate error margins (i.e., overestimates) in calculating value content. The paper also examines the relationship between value content and production networks. The paper finds that many industries exhibited declines in local content during the period 1990-2000, but that the geographical spread of production networks raised the proportion of inputs supplied by the neighboring ASEAN countries, so that the contribution of the cumulative rule of origin increased. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 Institute of Developing Economies.
2009	Regional trade agreements in East Asia: Will they be sustainable?By assessing the sustainability of regional trade agreements (RTAs) for East Asia, we quantitatively evaluate the likely impact of proposed East Asian RTA strategies on the East Asian economies and the world economy with respect to consumption, production, volume of trade and terms of trade effects by applying a multi-country and multi-sector computable general equilibrium model. These strategies include: (i) the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA: a being-left-alone strategy); (ii) an ASEAN Hub RTA (a hub-and-spoke type of overlapping RTA strategy); (iii) the AFTA versus a China-Japan-Korea RTA (a duplicating or competing RTA strategy); and (iv) an ASEAN+3 RTA (an expansionary RTA strategy). We find that an expansionary ASEAN+3 RTA could be a sustainable policy option because the members' gains would be significantly positive, with more equitably distributed gains between members than when using other strategies. The effect on world welfare would also be positive and the negative effect on nonmembers would not be very strong. More interestingly, if the East Asian countries cooperate with Pacific Basin countries to form an APEC-level RTA, such as a free trade area of the Asia-Pacific, the extension of the regional trade bloc might be considered a more desirable policy option than the proposed East Asian RTAs for East Asian economies, even though countries excluded from the free trade area of the Asia Pacific are worse off. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2009	Interaction between foreign and domestic investors in the Korean stock and futures marketsThe present paper analyzes the behavioral relations of major investor groups in the stabilized Korean stock and futures markets after the 1997 Asian financial crisis. Investor groups cannot be classified as positive or negative feedback traders on market returns when both stock and futures markets are considered, which is inconsistent with the results in Ghysels and Seon (2005). Foreign investors and domestic institutions tend to take opposite positions in both markets. The impact of foreign investors on the basis change is significantly negative in the futures market, whereas domestic institutions have a negative relation in the stock market. This supports the view that selling activity of foreign investors in the futures market pulls the futures price down compared with the index value and, consequently, induces the reverse cash-and-carry trade of domestic institutions. This relationship, which negatively influenced the Korean economy during the crisis, as shown in Ghysels and Seon (2005), still exists in the Korean financial markets. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2009	External adjustments and coordinated exchange rate policy in AsiaIn this paper, we estimate structural VAR models with contemporaneous restrictions based on neo-classical and Keynesian theories to investigate whether the cause of current account surpluses for East Asian economies is a "saving glut" or undervalued currencies. Analytical results show that the major determinant of the current account is the real effective exchange rate for all East Asian countries with the exception of China for which the major determinant is domestic GDP. Accordingly, the recently requested revaluation of the Chinese yuan may not be an effective policy for reducing the Chinese current account surplus, and may affect other Asian current accounts. We also investigate whether a Chinese currency revaluation would contribute to the improvement of current account imbalances in East Asia and find that a revaluation would, indeed, improve the current accounts of Japan, Korea, Indonesia, and Thailand. Since the trade structures of major East Asian countries are substitutes with that of China, a Chinese currency revaluation might not lead to a decrease in East Asian current account surpluses. Coordination of currency policy among East Asian countries is, therefore, needed to solve the global current account imbalance. ⓒ 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2009	The skill premium and the great divergenceThis article analyses the long-term development of the skill premium in western Europe in a global perspective, on the basis of data on wages of skilled and unskilled construction workers in more than a dozen European countries and regions, and in a number of non-European countries such as India, China, Japan, Russia, Korea and Indonesia. It shows that already in the late medieval period the skill premium in western Europe had fallen sharply and became, from the fifteenth century onwards, much lower than in most other parts of the world economy. Only in southern China, and perhaps also in nineteenth-century Japan, did the skill premium fall to an equally low level. The explanation for these global patterns focuses on factor proportions, the quality of institutions and demand-related factors. Moreover, it is argued that the skill premium measured in this way is also a predictor of long-term economic performance. ⓒ European Historical Economics Society 2009.
2009	Distorted agricultural incentives and economic development: Asia's experienceEarnings from farming in many low-income countries have been depressed by a pro-urban bias in own-country policies, as well as by governments of richer countries favouring their farmers with import barriers and subsidies. Both sets of policies reduce national and global economic welfare. The rapid development of many Asian emerging economies has been accompanied by a gradual reduction in their anti-agricultural policies, but many distortions remain and some countries have moved from negative to positive assistance for farmers, following the earlier examples of first Japan and then Korea and Taiwan. Drawing on results from a new multi-country research project, this paper examines the extent of these changes relative to those of other developing countries over the past five decades. It concludes by pointing to prospects for further policy reform in Asia. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2009 Blackwell Publishers Ltd.
2009	Free trade agreements versus customs unions: An examination of east AsiaThe spaghetti bowl phenomenon expected from the proliferating East Asian regional trade agreements (RTAs) is worrisome. In particular, the complicated web of hub-and-spoke type of overlapping free trade agreements (FTAs) can result in high costs for verifying rules of origin. As an alternative policy option to avoid the negative effect of trade deflection, customs unions (CUs) should be examined. Most of the theoretical analyses on the formation of CUs highlight stronger positive welfare effects compared to FTAs. However, there is a lack of empirical evidence to support the second- best theory of customs unions. This paper is an attempt to fill this gap by applying two methodologies: an ex ante simulation approach and an ex-post econometric approach.We quantitatively estimate the trade effect of CUs and FTAs by adopting a Gravity regression analysis. In general, we find that a CU is a superior type of RTA to an FTA in terms of creating more intra-bloc trade. In addition to analyzing the trade effects of RTAs according to type, we quantitatively evaluate the welfare and output effects of CUs for East Asia (an ASEAN 3 CU and a China-Japan-Korea CU) compared to FTAs by applying a computable general equilibrium model analysis. The East Asian CUs adopt a system of common external tariffs (CET) based on simple-averaged, import-weighted, consumption-weighted, and minimum rates. Overall, we find that the ASEAN 3 CU with the minimum CET are the most desirable type of RTA for both East Asian member countries and the world economy as a whole. ⓒ 2009 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2009	Economic research and economic growth: Evidence from East Asian economiesBased upon page counts of articles published in 60 quality economics journals, the role of economic research is examined for five East Asian economies. In Hong Kong, causality runs bi-directionally between research productivity and economic growth; in Japan, the causal effects tend to be one direction from economic growth to research publications; in Korea and Taiwan, causality runs the other way around from publications to growth; and in Singapore, the causal effects are small and insignificant. Socioeconomic differences in each economy help to explain the various causal directions found. ⓒ 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2009	Successful globalisation, education and sustainable developmentThis article examines the role of education in 'successful globalisation' and how this links with agendas for sustainable development. In the first part 'successful globalisation' is defined as economic growth combined with equality and social peace. Japan and the East Asian tiger economies - particularly South Korea and Taiwan - have been uniquely successful in the last half century in achieving both rapid economic growth over long periods and relative income equality and social cohesion. A host of factors have been responsible for this, including fortuitous geo-political circumstances and good timing. However, education has also played a major role. The article, based on a review of international and national research literatures, analyses how far China, India, Kenya and Sri Lanka have managed to develop their own forms of successful engagement with the global economy and what part education policy has played. In the second part we relate our concept of successful globalisation to the parallel discourses of sustainable development and education for sustainable development and reflect on what our notion of 'successful globalisation' can borrow from and lend to these literatures. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
2009	Output volatility of five crisis-affected East Asia economiesA decade has passed since the Asian financial crisis (AFC) in 1997, and attention is drawn to the output performance of the crisis-affected economies in East Asia. Using the Hodrick-Prescott (HP) filter, this paper examines the growth volatility of GDP, its components and the stock market of five East Asia economies of Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Chinese Taipei and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR). Empirical evidences based on quarterly data show that output volatility for both Singapore and South Korea has increased after the AFC. For the GDP components, trade is a major factor in lowering GDP volatility in Chinese Taipei. The Hong Kong SAR economy has experienced an increase/decrease in the volatility of investment/private consumption. Among the five East Asia economies, government intervention is obvious in Singapore. The stock markets in both Hong Kong SAR and Chinese Taipei showed stronger ability in absorbing shocks. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2009	The export price index with the effect of variety and an empirical analysisThe standard international trade models predict that economic growth induces decreasing export prices. Korea has recorded sustainable economic and export growth, and its export prices have been deteriorating over the last decades. Unlike the standard assumption of one good per country, the new theoretical approach by Krugman [Krugman, P. (1980) 'Scale Economies, Product Differentiation, and Pattern of Trade'. American Economic Review 70, 950-959, Krugman, P. (1989) 'Differences in income elasticities and trends in real exchange rates'. European Economic Review, 33, 1055-1085.], and Helpman and Krugman [Helpman, E. and Krugman, P. (1985), Market structure and foreign trade: increasing returns, imperfect competition, and international economy, The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.] takes into account varieties of goods produced in each country. And many studies suggest that traditional estimates without variety effect have been rather under-stated. Therefore this paper develops a proper modeling for quantifying the impact of export variety on an exact export price index. Throughout the period (1984-2000), the conventional export price index without variety effect leads to under-state Korea's export price by 89.3%. This paper shows that the fall in Korean export prices has been offset by the effect of export variety. This paper emphasizes the effect of export variety on international trade. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2009	Purchasing power parity in Korean city panels with disaggregate price indicesWe examine whether the purchasing power parity holds between Korean major cities. We use the disaggregated consumer price index data for Korean cities including 13 tradable or nontradable goods. We apply panel unit root tests of Maddala and Wu (1999), Choi (2001) and Im et al. (2003). From the empirical result, we are able to reject the nonstationary null hypothesis for six of eight tradable goods and for two of five nontradable goods at the 10% level. Thus we could conclude that the theory holds between Korean major cities. Also, it holds more for tradable goods than nontradable goods.
2009	Military Change in AsiaAsia's growing share of the global economy provides one of the strongest themes in contemporary analysis of international affairs. The remarkable economic achievements of Japan, Korea, and Taiwan over the past 50 years have been compounded more recently by the rise of the Chinese and Indian economies. While the significance of this change in the way international wealth is shared was beyond doubt before the onset of the current global financial crisis, many commentators expect that when the world eventually emerges from the crisis Asia's share of the global economy will have grown even further. This shift clearly has strategic importance: economic decisions made in Asia, whether by governments or business, are now more important for the rest of the world than they have been for centuries. If military power were moving in the same direction, and at the same pace, the strategic consequences would be even greater. This paper examines trends in Asian military spending and modernisation. It begins with a summary of defence spending among Asian countries.1 It next considers the nature of the capabilities and equipment they are acquiring, and comments on the way in which forces are being structured, commanded, and managed. It then comments on the range of different factors that are driving military spending and modernisation in Asia, and offers particular comment on China in this regard. The paper then concludes with brief comments on United States and Australian military spending and development. ⓒ 2009, Institute for International Policy Studies.
2009	Japan Confronts the Global Economic CrisisIn the face of the global economic crisis of 2008?09, Japan has played a positive role in helping to stabilize the regional and global financial systems. Among the positive actions it has taken have been large-scale fiscal and monetary stimulus at home, an unprecedentedly large loan to the International Monetary Fund, liquidity support to South Korea, and a proactive role in G-20 discussions. However, regional arrangements such as the Chiang Mai Initiative have been of minimal importance in preventing financial crises in East Asia. Japan can continue to demonstrate leadership in promoting regional economies and financial systems by expanding its current activities, while ensuring that regional arrangements continue to support global ones. ⓒ 2009, Institute for International Policy Studies.
2009	Higher education reform in South Korea: Success tempered by challengesThis article first describes the rapid and fundamental transformation of South Korea's system of tertiary education since 1945. It then identifies five challenges for higher education in South Korea: an appropriate response to demographic change, the introduction of a new governance model, the implementation of a coherent quality assurance system, the development of competitive graduate education at home and finally the process of internationalisation in higher education. These five challenges will force Korea to continue with reforms. However, a simple continuation of changes that were instituted in the past will not be sufficient. A change in direction is required in all five dimensions.
2009	Analysis on the technical efficiency and productivity growth of the Korean cable SOs: A stochastic frontier approachCable TV in Korea started in 1995 to provide service of multi-channel broadcasting and this marked the beginning of the new media era as well as the initial launching of video subscription services in Korea. Thereafter, new multimedia broadcasting such as digital satellite broadcasting (DSB) in 2001 and digital multimedia broadcasting (DMB) in 2005 were subsequently introduced. At the early stage of development of the Korean Cable TV industry, operators were separately permitted as program provider (PP), system operator (SO) and network operator (NO). In order to minimize the negative structural effects from belonging to specific companies such as the Press, large conglomerates and so on, they were not allowed to have cross-ownership. As first and second SO licensees, 53 metropolitan-centered SOs and 24 provincial-centered SOs were licensed in 1994 and 1997 respectively. Thereafter, Relay Operator (RO) were two times switched to SO for the revitalization of Cable TV through the unification of the laws and regulations in this industry. ⓒ 2009 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2009	An empirical study on the performance of public financing for small business in KoreaCredit guarantee schemes for small business financing have been one of the most important public support programs to develop the regional economies in many countries. Even if the systems as well as the governance for each program are different in detail, most of theorists and government officials supported the economic necessity and the effective performance. Most empirical models base on the incremental or marginal approaches to analyze the performance or productivity of the public financing using input-output model such as Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) or cost-benefit approaches. These kinds of approaches may prove the effective performance, but not negatively. Thus, the objective of the research is to investigate whether the public financing support such as credit guarantee is 'really' effective. In order to analyze this effectiveness of credit guarantees, the paper shall differentiate why to support with how to support. To compare these questions, the paper shall utilize two sets of approaches toward the public financing system and its governance. ⓒ 2009 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2009	Efficiency analysis of the digital content industry in Korea: An application of order-m frontier modelIt is a very strategic and efficient policy for Korea, a small country with few natural resources, to develop information and communication technology (ICT) as an alternative source of development. The surprisingly rapid development of the ICT industry is a result of long term and optimal R&D investment and also due to the national uniqueness of this industry field. Specially, the fast diffusion of super-highway internet has enabled the advanced foundation for this industry. With the development of ICT, a new type of industry has emerged. The digital content industry has enjoyed the benefits of the ICT industry development and has the distinct characteristics compared to traditional industries. Economic scholars are forecasting the various future possibilities and the next generation of ICT. They emphasize the necessity of moving the axis from communication network-based services to content-based services. ⓒ 2009 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2009	The effect of asset composition strategy on venture capital firm efficiency: An application of data envelopment analysisThe Korean government has driven the venture capital market since KTB Network was created in 1981 to provide capital to the high tech firms. Due to the venture policy, the venture capital market has undergone a compressed growth in a short period of time. In 1986, the government enacted the "Small and Medium Business Start-up Support Act" and "Finance Act to Support New Technology Businesses" to provide legal bases to establish venture capital (VC) firms. The government pushed the VC firms to carry out equity investments on small and medium businesses within the age of 7 years. Hence, the Korea Development Bank Capital and TG Venture, the archetypes of today's VC firms, have been established to finance high tech firms such as Medison, Mirae, and Sambo Computer (Lee 2003). In spite of the efforts made by the government, until the mid-1990s, there were problems in constructing the venture capital market, due to poor system to finance technology and lack of policy measures to support the high tech firms. There was no exit system to liquidize the equity investments, and most of the investment targets were from mature industries which brought low returns. Further debt financing was preferred to equity investment because of the low risk and high interest rate. This paper is organized as follows. Chapter 2 presents the literature reviewed and the hypotheses proposed. In Chap. 3, methodologies are presented while in Chap. 4, the data and the variables are presented. In Chap. 5, the effect of asset composition strategies on operating efficiency is estimated and analyzed. In Chap. 6, the estimation results are reviewed and policy implications addressed. ⓒ 2009 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2009	Technical, business and policy challenges of mobile televisionMobile TV is considered an important component of the future portfolio of mobile services. It illustrates many of the challenges of developing sustainable business models for advanced mobile services. The value net of mobile TV requires coordination and collaboration among a larger number of market players than mobile voice services. Using South Korea, a mobile TV pioneer, and the United States as rich case studies the paper examines how technology, policy, and business decisions jointly influence the mobile TV market. Whereas there does not seem to be a 'best' market design, we identify choices that tend to impede the development of mobile TV. South Korea has been able to accelerate the early introduction of mobile TV but the US market-led approach seems to provide more flexibility to experiment and discover viable business models. ⓒ 2009 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2009	A cross-country empirical analysis of international reservesUsing data from more than 100 economies for the period of 1975 to 2005, we conduct an extensive empirical analysis of the determinants of international reserve holdings. Four groups of determinants, namely, traditional macro variables, financial variables, institutional variables, and dummy variables that control for individual economies' characteristics are considered. We find that the relationship between international reserves and their determinants is significantly different between developed and developing economies and is not stable over time. The estimation results indicate that, especially during the recent period, a developed economy tends to hold a lower level of international reserves than a developing one. Furthermore, there is only limited evidence that East Asian economies including China and Japan are accumulating an excessive amount of international reserves. ⓒ 2009 Korea International Economic Association.
2009	A comparative empirical examination of outward foreign direct investment from four asian economies: People's Republic of China; Japan; Republic of Korea; and Taipei, ChinaThis paper compares and contrasts the determinants of outward foreign direct investment from the People's republic of China (PrC) with those of outward foreign direct investment from Japan, republic of Korea, and Taipei,China. The paper examines descriptively and econometrically the motives and factors behind the investment abroad from these four Asian economies. The hypotheses being tested include the market-seeking hypothesis, the natural resource-seeking hypothesis, the technology acquisition hypothesis, and the human capital hypothesis. The paper examines outward foreign direct investment by the PrC for the years 1991-2006, Japan for 1983-2007, the republic of Korea for 1980-2007, and Taipei,China for 1968-2007. results using the full set of determinants yield uniform support for the market-seeking hypothesis. The natural resource-seeking motive holds for Japan and the republic of Korea, while the technology acquisition hypothesis seems relevant for Taipei,China. The PrC's investments tend to go to destinations with poorer labor quality. in addition, openness is important for Japanese investment abroad, while distance deters investment from the PrC and republic of Korea. ⓒ 2009 Asian development Bank.
2009	Capital mobility in Asia: Evidence from bounds testing of cointegration between savings and investmentThis paper explores the international capital mobility in North Asia (South Korea and Taiwan), South Asia (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand) and India. In particular, the Feldstein-Horioka puzzle, which states domestic investment and savings are highly and positively correlated, was examined for cointegration using an autoregressive distributed lag bounds testing procedure. The results did not show a positive correlation between savings and investment. There was essentially no relationship at level between savings and investment in all eight cases. Thirteen out of 16 structural break tests or 81.25% indicate no structural breaks. The analysis concluded with certain limitations that there is high capital mobility in the economies under study. ⓒ 2009 Taylor & Francis.
2009	Balanced development in globalizing regional development? Unpacking the New Regional Policy of South KoreaLEE Y.-S. Balanced development in globalizing regional development? Unpacking the new regional policy of South Korea, Regional Studies. This paper critically examines South Korea's adoption of 'new regionalism' as a basis for its regional policy initiatives. It is argued that this new regional policy poses dualism between endogenism and exogenism, and as such fails to reformulate and rearticulate theoretical and policy views on the globalization of regional development. Instead of dualism, a concept of 'multi-scalar governance' has been developed as an analytical lens through which regional development in the era of globalization can be analysed. Based on this viewpoint, the drawbacks of the new regional policy - the problems of triangular inter-scalar coordination - are specifically reviewed. For this analysis, archival re-examination and in-depth interviews with policy-makers have been employed. ⓒ 2009 Regional Studies Association.
2008	Future of economic growth for South KoreaMore than 80 percent of US growth between 1950 and 1993 can be attributed to transition dynamics (increases in R&D intensity and educational attainment), with less than 20 percent of growth deriving from population growth. Similarly, growth accounting shows that 80 percent of economic growth in Korea can be attributed to transition dynamics. However, the specific factors that have moved Korea far from its steady state are significantly different from the factors that have done so for the USA. In addition to the growth rates of the two countries, we also analyzed the (steady-state) level of output per worker to determine where the Korean economy is headed relative to the USA. In 1960, Korea was characterized as poor (0.111) relative to its own steady state (0.765), and incomes were at 11.1 percent of those in the USA. Since then, however, Korea has been growing more rapidly than the USA. In our analysis, we also consider the extreme case where total factor productivity levels converge completely. Interestingly, in this case, the USA and Korea exhibit unconditional convergence similar to what is generally observed in the OECD. As the economy approaches the steady-state income level, however, the growth rate of output per capita will decline. ⓒ 2008 The Authors Journal compilation ⓒ 2008 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2008	International dependency and economic fluctuations in east asian NIEsThis paper investigates the sources of economic fluctuations in the four Asian newly industrialized economies (NIEs), namely Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. As small open economies, their macro-economic development is highly dependent on technology as well as markets of large countries. Using the common trends model, we examine the impacts of external supply shock, internal supply shock and trade shock on the key national macro-economic variables of these four economies, i.e. output, consumption, investment, export and import. Our empirical evidence suggests that supply-side disturbances, both the country-specific supply shocks and international supply shocks explain the bulk of fluctuations in output. ⓒ 2008 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2008	Examining the asymmetric behaviour of macroeconomic aggregates in Asian economiesThe goal of this paper is to test for asymmetric behaviour of macroeconomic aggregates for three Asian economies; namely, Malaysia, Hong Kong and Korea. Whether macroeconomic aggregates can be characterised as asymmetric has important implications for policy-making and econometric modelling including forecasting. We examine two forms of asymmetries; specifically deepness, which arises when a detrended time series contains an asymmetric distribution, and steepness, which arises when the first difference of a series contains an asymmetric distribution. Overall, our findings suggest that for all three countries, the bulk of the series display asymmetry behaviour. ⓒ 2008 The Author Journal compilation ⓒ 2008 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2008	Sectoral innovation system and a technological Catch-Up: The case of the capital goods industry in KoreaThis paper deals with the question of why making a catch-up is even more difficult in capital goods industries that are usually led by small or middle-sized companies. It relies upon the sectoral systems of innovation as a theoretical framework for analysis. From the findings, the paper has identified three sources of difficulties in the catch-up of the capital goods industry, particularly in machine tools. First, while small firms in the capital goods industry are usually specialized suppliers to big final goods assembly firms in the consumer goods industry or other industries, and thus the tacit knowledge accumulated from the interface between the producer and the customer firms is very important, a serious difficulty lies in the fact that local client firms are reluctant to use locally made capital goods due to their poor quality and low precision level. Second, while a successful catch-up first requires the ability to produce goods of better quality and lower prices than those produced by incumbent firms from advanced countries, a typical difficulty arises because incumbent foreign firms often react by charging predatory prices upon news of the local development of capital goods by latecomers. Third, if the catch-up firms overcome this barrier, then the next strategy used by incumbent firms is to charge latecomers with legal actions for patent violations. Despite these intrinsic difficulties, the Korean economy has achieved a very slow but gradual catch-up in the capital goods industry. The paper has attributed such achievement to several factors, including the strenuous efforts of the government, niche markets in general-purpose machine tools and emerging economies, and finally, the increasing introduction and adoption of information technology (IT) or digital technologies in machine tools. Furthermore, the three sources of barriers to catch-up imply that any latecomer firms that wish to record a successful catch-up should have these barriers in mind from the beginning of the road towards catch-up. We observe that a successful catch-up requires the ability to produce goods of better quality and lower prices than those produced by incumbent firms from advanced countries. After the initial success, they should also be well prepared against eventual or possible attacks by the incumbent firms in the forms of predatory pricing and intellectual property rights (IPR) charges. ⓒ 2008 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2008	Building an entrepreneurial economy: The case of Korea 1998-2005This paper examines how entrepreneurship takes place in an economy where traditional structural settings are not favorable to entrepreneurial activities. Specifically, it investigates the case of Korea during 1998-2005, when the national economy experienced fairly dramatic upsurge of start-ups and related changes. The paper argues that a national economy may achieve significant structural changes when diverse conditions are in place, including not only intentional efforts, e.g. governmental policies, but factors of serendipity triggering potential disruption to the economy, e.g. an external shock such as the Asian financial crisis in 1997. During the observation period, Korea went through notable changes in terms of entrepreneurship. Although limited, the Korean economy looks at possibilities of having small and medium-sized companies co-evolve with large ones such as chaebols. ⓒ 2008 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2008	State-led catching up strategies and inherited conflicts in developing the ICT industry: Behind the US-East Asia semiconductor disputesMoving from labour to some capital and knowledge intensive sectors, East Asian countries have actively pursued strategic industrial policies and successfully promoted targeted sectors. However, their growth in high tech sectors challenged the US leadership and the World Trade Organization (WTO)-supported neo-liberal development "wisdom". Tensions over trade and technology issues eventually exploded into fierce policy conflicts. This study explores the role of the state in a single information and communication technology (ICT) sector, the semiconductor industry, over the course of its evolution in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and China. It is hoped to tackle the issues surrounding the conflicts between the Western economic orthodoxy and East Asian development policies through explaining the ICT development pathway of these countries. The finding shows that the international frictions in both ICT trade and technology were inevitable and reflect the divergence of development visions held by latecomers and developed countries. ⓒ 2008 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2008	The miracle to crisis and the mirage of the postcrisis reform in Korea: Assessment after ten yearsTen years have passed since Korea underwent a severe financial crisis in 1997-98. The crisis prompted the Korean government to undertake a number of reforms in finance, corporate governance, and labor market. This paper analyzes the dynamics of the reform process and assesses the outcomes of the reforms, which aimed at introducing the Anglo-Saxon economic model. It argues that the reform outcomes were conditioned on the interplay of local-specific conditions and interest politics and that the reforms were intent more on establishing a market-oriented economy than promoting the long-term growth potential and the competitiveness of the economy. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier Inc.
2008	Indonesian economic development: Mirage or miracle?This paper focuses on a few major developments that took place during the three decades from the late 1960s to the Asian financial crisis. The study finds, in retrospect, that many of the Indonesian economy's weaknesses-now so glaringly apparent-were there all the time. The paper concludes that the Indonesian banking crisis was primarily domestic in nature, more so than the crises in Korea and Thailand. The extent of the failure was much more widespread and probably resulted from a chain of bank runs and bank closings, reinforced by uncertainty and lack of faith in the government's commitment to the IMF program and IMF fumbling. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2008	Growth pattern, employment, and income inequality: What the experience of Republic of Korea and Taipei, China Reveals to the People's Republic of ChinaThe People's Republic of China (PRC) achieved rapid economic growth during the last 30 years, but its income distribution has worsened. In contrast, Republic of Korea and Taipei,China experienced high growth for several decades after the 1950s, while managing to keep income inequality low. This paper looks at development experiences of Republic of Korea and Taipei,China in the 1950s-1990s, and concludes that the key to achieving high growth with low inequality in the two economies was the adoption of a growth strategy that promoted development of labor-intensive industries and small- and medium-size enterprises. The creation of large amounts of employment opportunities to absorb rural surplus labor and reduce urban unemployment played a key role in keeping income inequality low. The paper argues that to reduce income inequality in the PRC, the government should shift to a more labor-intensive development strategy, encourage the development of small and medium enterprises, and unify the labor market. ⓒ 2008 Asian Development Bank.
2008	Does financial development cause economic growth? Implication for policy in KoreaThe causal relationship between financial development and economic growth is examined, utilizing the superexogeneity methodology. We use annual data for Korea during 1971-2002, during which Korea has experienced both phenomenal economic growth and a variety of financial liberalization and reforms. In our tests for superexogeneity, we find that financial development control causes economic growth, but the reverse is not true. Our empirical results provide evidence in favor of the 'finance causes growth' view for the case of Korea while rejecting the 'growth causes finance' view. The policy implication is that Korea should give policy priority to financial reform rather than economic growth, because only a decisive and accelerated pace of financial restructuring can ensure a sustainable growth in the medium or long term. ⓒ 2007 Society for Policy Modeling.
2008	Economic division and spatial relocation: The case of postwar JapanThis paper empirically investigates the effect of accessibility to markets on economic growth by using a new economic geography (NEG) model and the case of the economic separation of Japan and Korea after World War II. Korea was a Japanese colony from 1910 to 1945, and gained independence after World War II. This historical relationship between Japan and Korea can be interpreted as one of economic integration and division. We focus on the period of division and estimate the effect of the loss of the accessibility to the Korean market on the growth in postwar Japanese cities. By using a difference-in-differences (DD) methodology, we confirm that cities located close to Korea showed a relatively greater decline after the division of the colonial market, implying that accessibility to markets positively affects economic growth. Moreover, our results suggest that the large Japanese migratory movement observed in 1950-1970 can be interpreted as the relocation of industry that resulted from the division shock in 1945. J. Japanese Int. Economies 22 (3) (2008) 383-400. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2008	North Korea's resurgence and China's rise: Implications for the future of Northeast Asian securityToday, Northeast Asia's security situation is changing rapidly. North Korea is reviving and China's power is growing at an alarming rate. While the U.S. continues to suffer diplomatically and militarily in the Middle East and from international terrorism, China's and North Korea's power is likely to futher increase, polarizing the Northeast Asian security structure, with South Korea, Japan (and Taiwan) all allied with the U.S. versus North Korea allied with China. The liberal democracies should pursue peace with North Korea and China to preclude the situation from aggravating, but should be ready in the longer term to meet, in diverse ways including strengthening their alliances, the challenges posed by rising powers. ⓒ Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2008.
2008	Are exports of China, Japan and Korea diverted in the major regional trading blocs?In recent years China, Japan and Korea, the three major economies in East Asia, have been gearing up their efforts to sign free trade agreements with many different regions and countries. One of the main reasons for this is that they fear that with a regionalism movement rising in every corner of the world, their exports are discriminated against and diverted in the trading blocs of other nations. The main purpose of this paper is to investigate whether this is a real fear. We utilise the gravity equation augmented with dummy variables for regional trading blocs in three different specifications. One is the static, standard gravity model to examine the effect of regional blocs on the 'level' of exports from these three countries in 2003; the second is the fixed effects and random effects panel models for the period 1993-2003; and the third is the dynamic, partial-adjustment model to examine the effect of blocs on the 'changes' in exports between 1993 and 2003. The results show that trade diversion is observed only for China's exports in EU, EFTA and EAEC, but no diversion effect is observed for Japan's and Korea's exports in any of the major trading blocs. On the other hand, trade creation is observed for exports from China in ASEAN, for exports from Japan in ASEAN, CACM, CARICOM, EAEC, EU and NAFTA, and for exports from Korea in ASEAN, CACM, EAEC and MERCOSUR. Thus, Japan's and Korea's fear of discrimination and trade diversion is ungrounded, while China's fear is grounded only to a limited extent. ⓒ 2008 The Authors Journal compilation ⓒ 2008 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2008	Does trade, technology, or education expel traditional sectors? Some evidence from the collapse of the silk sector in South KoreaRapid economic growth and development often drives out traditional activities. We determine how increased trade, technology, and access to education in South Korea led to the collapse of its silk sector. Results show that although the imports of silk yarn and fabric reduced domestic silk output and prices, trade liberalization was not the sole contributor to the collapse. Inelastic labor demand for unskilled workers, skill-biased technology, and especially increased access to education all led to a sharp rise in the relative wage of unskilled workers, and the ensuing rise in production costs contributed to the silk sector's collapse. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2008 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2008	Has China displaced other Asian countries' exports?This paper uses gravity modelling to explore whether and how the growth of China's exports is displacing exports of other Asian countries to third markets over the period 1990-2003. Chinese exports are defined both narrowly and more broadly to include exports from Hong Kong. We investigate whether the displacement effect on Asian exports differs when exports from Hong Kong and China are combined compared to the narrow case of Chinese exports only. Aggregate and disaggregated analyses are undertaken. In the latter, we explore whether the displacement effect varies across Asian countries and in trade with different types of countries. We find evidence of a displacement effect which is more pronounced in developed markets and stronger for Hong Kong and China combined. Further it is the high income Asian exporters that experienced a greater displacement effect. We also investigate whether China's development has generated any offsetting effects on its neighbours' exports to China itself and find that Chinese growth has indeed increased China's imports from the Asian countries in the sample and in particular from Japan and Korea. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2008	Exchange rate regime and monetary policy independence in East AsiaThis paper investigates whether the choice of exchange rate regimes influences the sensitivity of domestic interest rates to international interest rates. We empirically analyse this issue in the context of East Asian economies by employing a regime switching model. We find that the sensitivity of local interest rates to international interest rates declined in Korea and Thailand after they adopted floating exchange rate regimes. We also find that Japan, with a floating exchange regime, has greater independence in monetary policy than a pegged economy such as Hong Kong. These empirical findings suggest that exchange rate flexibility provides greater monetary independence. ⓒ Journal compilation ⓒ 2008 Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2008	What happened to pacific-basin emerging markets after the 1997 financial crisis?The stock prices of Asian emerging markets have been at tandem with sharp moves of the US market since the 1997 financial crisis. This study investigates how the 1997 crisis has changed Asian emerging markets by focusing on price and volatility spillovers from the US market to five Pacific-Basin emerging markets, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, and Taiwan. We have used daily stock prices from 3, January 1995 to 24, April 2001 and compared the spillover effects between the prior- and post-crisis periods employing an EGARCH model. The influence of US innovations on stock prices in the region increased after the 1997 financial crisis (only with the exception of the Malaysian market), but the influence of US shocks on market volatility decreased substantially after the crisis (only with the exception of the Korean market). South Korea and Malaysia pursued different approaches to coping with the financial crisis, and their different programs led to opposite shifts in price and volatility spillovers after the crisis.
2008	Russian energy and the Korean PeninsulaThe recent agreements concerning North Korea's nuclear program raise possibilities for providing North Korea with energy (oil and gas) to compensate for the termination of its nuclear program and of integrating it more broadly into the Northeast Asian economy. Russia has long wanted to play the role of provider of oil and gas to North Korea and these agreements open up new opportunities for it to do so. However, serious obstacles in the nature of North Korea's precarious economic situation and its consequences, international rivalries in Northeast Asia, and Russia's own energy policies present serious obstacles to the realization of Russia's ambitions as regards North Korea and as energy provider to Northeast Asia as a whole. ⓒ Springer Science + Business Media B.V. 2007.
2008	Evolutionary targetingEvolutionary Targeting is a dynamic, systems-evolutionary policy perspective which focuses on triggering, re-enforcing and sustaining market-led evolutionary processes of emergence of Multiagent Structures (industries, clusters, markets, etc). A major aspect is leveraging existing successes in firms to promote emergence of such structures. This requires discrete policy interventions directed at varying areas of system/market failure, which make their appearance at difference phases of the overall process. The paper briefly illustrates the approach through an analysis of VC policies in Israel and selected European countries, and by referring to the traditional view of Infant Industry development and existing views on high tech cluster development. The resulting framework of analysis, which differs radically from the 'Picking Winners' policies of the past and from the successful targeting of infant industries in Korea and post war Japan, seems to fit the increasingly turbulent and high return/high risk global environment prevailing today. ⓒ 2007 Springer-Verlag.
2008	The substitution among the exports of taiwan, china, and other countries to the united statesThe substitution among the exports of countries is a major phenomenon and foundation of the fast-changing global economy. However, the econometric method using aggregate data can usually estimate the extent of substitution only several years after the substitution has happened. This paper designed a detailed market share (DMS) analysis method that uses detailed trade data to document the actual replacement among the exports of different countries. The DMS indicators can measure the replacement that happened in every product or product group for every year. Therefore, DMS indicators can also be used as variables in further econometric research. This paper employed indicators to analyze the exports of Taiwan and China to the United States during 1990 and 2006.We found that the proportion of Taiwan's exports to the United States that was replaced by China during this period was about 71 percent to 85 percent. Taiwan, Japan, and other developed countries were the major sources of China's export growth. China also replaced a great part of developing countries' exports. China has also started to replace the high-end products of advanced countries.We found that 63 percent, 60 percent, and 33 percent of the highly human capital-intensive exports from Taiwan, Korea, and Japan, respectively, have been replaced by China. Most of these replacements happened in highend products after 2000. Therefore, more products from advanced countries will be replaced by China in the near future. ⓒ 2008 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2008	Quantitative estimates of the economic impacts of a korea-united states free trade agreementThis paper investigates the bilateral trade pattern between South Korea and the United States and examines the economic impact of a Korea-United States (KORUS) free trade agreement (FTA). Three related general equilibrium approaches were used to investigate the effects of a KORUS FTA. The static general equilibrium model estimates the efficiency gains from resource allocation. The capital accumulation general equilibrium model includes the growth bonus from the increased incentives for savings and investment created by the static efficiency gains. The productivity enhancement general equilibrium model augments the capital accumulation model by taking into consideration the dynamic efficiency improvements from competitive effects in the economies over time. The last welfare gain turns out to be the biggest gain from the KORUS FTA, dwarfing the static efficiency gains. The results indicate that Korea could gain an estimated 0.32 to 5.97 percent in GDP from a KORUS FTA. Much of the gains that would accrue to Korea from the FTA with the United States would be productivity gains from increased competition between U.S. producers and domestic Korean producers. Another important area of gain for Korea would be increased efficiency from lower non-tariff barriers. This provides a strong argument for ensuring that an FTA between Korea and the United States is comprehensive and facilitates regulatory cooperation and the reduction of non-tariff barriers. ⓒ 2008 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2008	Pattern of interregional inequality curve after Williamson's inverted U-shape curve: With special reference to the Republic of KoreaInterregional inequality has been a main driving force in the process of economic development by planners, researchers, regional scientists, and policymakers. The reason for this is that interregional inequality often are the reason for people's anti-administration sentiment and even becomes an obstacle to social integration and national development. However, a balanced national development (BND) program makes people more united and this advances national development goals. Meanwhile, Williamson's study in 1965 showed that inequality increases for some time due to the concentration of production factors in the developing areas and that interregional inequality pattern traces an inverted U-shape curve along the path of economic development. He also noted that beyond interregional inequality reaches its peak at a certain point in time, there is a reversal in the inequality trend and that from this point on, interregional inequality decreases because production factors tart decentralizing from the center of developed areas to the peripheral areas because of the diseconomies of the center.
2008	A dynamic analysis of the impact of uncertainty on import- and/or export-led growth: The experience of Japan and the Asian TigersIncreasing integration of the Asian Tigers with the world economy through trade has exposed their income and trade to greater uncertainty and volatility. This paper models uncertainty in trade and income and re-examines the stability of the trade-growth nexus for Japan and the Asian Tigers in a dynamic framework. We find that in a volatile environment Japan's GDP growth is only import-led while Hong Kong's GDP growth is both export and import growth-led. On the other hand, incorporating uncertainty breaks the causal link between Korea's GDP growth and trade but it does not affect Taiwan's mutually causative relationship between GDP growth, with exports and imports. Lastly, the varied qualitative and quantitative impact of volatility in imports and exports on income growth among the Asian Tigers provides further thought for policy making. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2008	Persistent innovation: A cross-country study of output and diversity over timeThis article analyses firms' dynamic behaviours of patent persistence and technology proximity in innovation activities for United States, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan during 1990-2003. We find that on average, the persistency of Japanese firms in sustaining their innovative activities is stronger than US firms, while South Korean firms are more tenacious than their Taiwanese counterparts.
2008	Evidence of a nonlinear relationship between inflation and inflation uncertainty: The case of the four little dragonsUsing a nonlinear flexible regression model for four economies in east Asia, we re-examine two hypotheses in light of the causal relationship between inflation and inflation uncertainty. The first, proposed by Friedman [Friedman, M. (1977). Nobel lecture: Inflation and unemployment. Journal of Political Economy, 85, 451-472], postulates that increased inflation raises inflation uncertainty. Conversely, the second, put forth by Cukierman and Meltzer [Cukierman, A., & Meltzer, A. (1986). a theory of ambiguity, credibility, and inflation under discretion and asymmetric information. Econometrica, 54, 1099-1128], propounds that a high level of inflation uncertainty leads to a higher rate of inflation. Here, except for Hong Kong, overwhelming statistical evidence is found in favor of Friedman's hypothesis. The nonlinearity displays a U-shaped pattern, strongly implying that, indeed, a high rate of inflation or deflation results in high inflation uncertainty. At the same time, however, convincing evidence is found for Cukierman-Meltzer's hypothesis in favor of all four economies. Although Taiwan has an inverted U-shape, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Korea show a positive relation, thus agreeing with Cukierman-Meltzer's hypothesis. ⓒ 2007 Society for Policy Modeling.
2008	International interdependence of an emerging market: The case of IranIn this study the interdependence between Iran, its major trading partners and the United States is investigated using vector autoregression, generalized impulse response function and generalized variance decomposition techniques, introduced by Pesaran and Shin (1998). These techniques have an advantage over the commonly used impulse response and variance decomposition procedures in that they are insensitive to the ordering of the countries considered and hence, they produce more reliable results. The countries included in the sample, besides Iran are, France, Germany, Spain, Japan, South Korea, Brazil, Italy and the United States. The direction, strength, durability and stability of the effect of shocks in one market on the return patterns of the other markets are examined. The findings are 4-fold. First, the effect of past own market shocks on current behaviour is significant, beyond the first month, in most cases. Second, the own effect is stronger for the emerging markets such as Iran and Brazil, than the industrialized countries. Third, cross-country effects are short-lived for Brazil, Korea and Japan, but durable in the case of Iran, Germany, Spain and the United States. Fourth, in terms of breadth and strength, cross-country effects exhibit differential degrees of interdependence and asymmetry. The observed lack of integration between the Iranian market and the industrialized world makes it less vulnerable to the effect of shocks in the latter countries but it also deprives it from the flow of funds that could spur economic development and growth.
2008	Exchange rates, global imbalances, and interdependence in East AsiaThe paper analyzes East Asian interdependence in the face of global imbalances. A macro-econometric multinational model is used, describing Korea, Japan, China and the rest of East Asia in their respective relations with the United States as well as with the rest of the world. US imbalances and their expected consequences, notably a depreciation of the dollar and the slowdown of US demand, have rather contrasted effects on East Asian economies, depending on relative magnitudes of the two components. Korea is more affected by the dollar depreciation while China is more exposed to the US slowdown. Japan, less open and less dependent on the US market, is less touched. The correction of East Asian exchange-rate misalignments, which have prevailed since the beginning of the 2000s, would badly affect East Asian economies if undertaken too abruptly. Lastly, the perspective of creating an area of stabilised exchange rates between won, yen and other currencies, organized either as a common currencies basket system or in a regime based on the ACU, is explored preliminarily. Sets of simulations comparing adjustment mechanisms between East Asian countries, with or without the possibility of monetary adjustment, illustrate the cost of precluding exchange-rate adjustments in the case of asymmetric demand shocks. ⓒ 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2008	Challenges to the theory and practice of polyarchy: The rise of the political left in KoreaThis paper provides an analysis of the development of democracy in Korea since the transition from authoritarianism in 1987, and its implications for critical analyses of Third World democratisation. Accounts of 'low intensity democracy' or 'polyarchy' have noted Third World democratisation for its constrained and elite-centred nature, and as an outcome of US foreign policy, which has sought to demobilise restive popular movements and extend the reach of global capital. However, the Korean general elections of 2004 saw the historic entry of the explicitly socialist Korean Democratic Labour Party (kdlp) into the National Assembly. A re-examination of post-authoritarian politics in fact shows a process of continuous contestation that belies the claims made by the polyarchy literature. Formal democratisation has by its very nature allowed for a counter-movement to be mobilised. The paper also examines the relationship between the kdlp and the mass labour union movement and argues that, while democracy has provided opportunities for participation by previously marginalised social forces, concomitant neoliberal restructuring has limited the development of the mass movements from which such political projects draw their strength. Thus, inquiry into the implications of democratisation for a progressive challenge to neoliberal capitalism must also extend beyond 'politics' to mass movements in the socioeconomic sphere.
2008	An empirical investigation on sustainability of balancing item in Asian countriesThis study explores the sustainability of the balancing item in Asian economies. The conventional unit root tests (includes panel tests) illustrate that the results are rather inconclusive. However, the results from the series-specific panel unit root test consistently illustrate that five of the countries (Singapore, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Korea and Malaysia) balancing item is on the sustainable path. For other remaining eight countries (Maldives, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka and Thailand), there is evidence that her balancing item of balance of payments accounts is unsustainable.
2008	Emergence of China and the economy of South KoreaThe emergence of China as a major player in the global economy has had many consequences for the economy of South Korea and has serious implications for that country's future prospects and economic relationship with China. This paper examines the changes in the export structure of the two economies that have taken place since the establishment of formal diplomatic relations in 1987 and their effect on the South Korean economy. It specifically examines whether the rise of China and its 'catching-up' with Korea has caused the 'hollowing out' of Korea's corporate sector. China is now the most important destination for Korean exports and a major supplier of its imports. While it has become a serious challenger of South Korea in world markets for manufacturing exports, China is now an important bilateral trade partner for the country. Furthermore, South Korea has become an important parts supplier for China's manufacturing firms and has thus indirectly benefited from the growth of China's manufacturing exports. The growing bilateral trade and deepening of production networks may be taken as a sign of growing economic interdependence of the two economies.
2008	Korean modernism, modern Korean cityscapes, and mass housing development: Charting the rise of Ap'at'? Tanji since the 1960sCompletely unknown to Korean city-dwellers before the 1960s, large apartment complexes (ap'at'? tanji) dominate South Korean cityscapes today. How did Western-style housing blocks migrate to Korea on such a large scale? These are issues in the relationships between the development of ap 'at'? tanji and South Korean modernisation. The paper will examine these issues in a Korea context, through an analysis centred on a macro-geographic approach allowing the interpretation of the cityscape. The paper will first discuss the origin of the ap 'at'? tanji model, which takes its roots in intertwined modernist Western theories filtered through Japanese mediation during the colonial period and then processed by local post-colonial power structures; the paper will then show how the 'Koreanised' apartment complex was a central element of fashioning the modern Korean cityscape and urban society during the 1970s and 1980s. Finally, the paper attempts to reconsider the usually Eurocentric concepts of 'modernism' and 'modernity'.
2008	The lone star scandal: Was it corruption?The Lone Star scandal emerged as one of the biggest Korean news stories of 2006. The foreign fund faced allegations of corruption, of bribing financial authorities for favours through the below-market purchase price of publicly held shares in Korea Exchange Bank. To facilitate the deal, the Ministry of Finance and Economy and the Financial Supervisory Commission were accused of improperly providing Lone Star with an exception to the bank law's ban on takeovers by non-bank financial institutions, of failing to issue a notice of prompt corrective action, of limiting the bidding, and of breaking normal bureaucratic decision-making protocol. Applying a functional definition and approach to measure corruption, favours (rent) and legal infractions serve as indicators to help us determine whether or not corruption took place during the Lone Star takeover. Analysis reveals that while some laws and procedures were liberally interpreted, a lack of rent in the takeover signifies absence of large-scale corruption, particularly trivial in comparison to graft under previous Korean authoritarian regimes. The overly aggressive investigation of Lone Star can best be explained, therefore, as part of a hostile political reaction to the power of foreign capital and the demands of globalisation.
2008	Negotiating with North Korea: Lessons learned and forgottenThe experience gained from dealing with North Korea from 1993-2000 is largely forgotten. During those years, the US and the DPRK logged thousands of hours of contact. The inability of most observers to remember the legacy of these contacts is a central reason for the sterile nature of the diplomacy since 2001. Conventional wisdom remains the same: It is impossible to deal with the North Koreans. Yet, from 1993-2000, the US Government had more than twenty issues under discussion with the North. A large percentage of those talks ended in agreements, almost all of which went beyond the declaratory stage to concrete implementation. The range of subjects expanded, moving past the 1994 Agreed Framework and finally culminating in the October 2000 US-DPRK Joint Communique, which laid a foundation for new progress. The path was bumpy, with numerous mistakes. Nevertheless, lessons were learned and put to good use. These lessons the new administration discarded in favor of its own mythology when it took office in January 2001. In diplomacy, beginning from scratch is not unprecedented, nor by itself necessarily a bad thing. In early June 1993, a United States negotiating team assembled in New York to deal with a crisis caused by a Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK - North Korea) announcement of its withdrawal from the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT). The principal members of the US team had never met a North Korean before and knew virtually nothing about North Korean history, culture, economy, or political system. When talks began, the crisis seemed to be about to go over the edge. Instead, after nine tense days, the US and North Korea agreed on 11 June on their first-ever joint statement, beginning eight years of intense negotiations and diplomatic accomplishments. The experience gained from dealing with North Korea over that period (1993-2000) has now largely vanished into a thicket of misapprehension and myth. Even where there has been some attention to the detail of events during those years, most of the focus has been on the Agreed Framework, signed the following year. But the negotiating experience gained is broader - and the lessons much deeper - than simply the 1993-94 talks that culminated in the Agreed Framework of 21 October 1994. From 1993-2000, the US and North Korea logged thousands of hours of face-to-face contact in formal and informal settings. The inability of most observers to remember, much less utilize, the legacy of these contacts is perhaps one of the central reasons for the sterile nature of the diplomatic process and the shallowness of the public discussions on the Korean issue during much of the Bush Administration. By contrast, the inability of the North Koreans to forget that legacy compounds their disdain for the current US approach, which explicitly rejects the achievements of the past, even as a basis for forging new agreements. The most recent efforts by current US officials to distance their accomplishments from those of the past would be comical if they were not so painful to watch.
2008	The political economy of patriotism: The case of HanbandoA blockbuster film with the title Hanbando ('The Korean Peninsula') opened in July of 2006. Preceded by a lavish advertising campaign, the film occupied one of every three cinema screens in South Korea during its initial run. Why this big-budget, patriotic film, featuring a number of well-known stars and evoking a wide range of topical issues of contention between South Korea and Japan, proved a financial failure and critical disaster is the story this article attempts to tell. A detailed examination of a section of Hanbando will consider the film-makers' choice of actors and choice of film style. Also taken into account will be the background of the production company, CJ Entertainment, and of the film's director Kang Woo-suk. Further matters looked at briefly include one other highly fictionalised film about Korean-Japanese conflict, Phantom, the Submarine, and the significance of the Japanese market for the products of South Korea's new cinema. For Korea's confident and well-capitalized film industry, summer is a season to pull out the stops and offer the South Korean - and increasingly international - audience the most spectacular products it can produce. In the summer of 2006, one such blockbuster was the film Hanbando ('The Korean Peninsula'). It was produced by a syndicate of major companies headed by market leader CJ Entertainment and directed by Kang Woo-suk, well-known for genre action films like the Two Cops franchise and Public Enemy and the nationalistic action thriller Silmido. The film was backed by a huge advertising budget and saturation bookings: it occupied 550 screens during the opening week, roughly one out of every three in South Korea. The film seemed destined to be the phenomenon of the summer releases. Hanbando is set in the near future. The two Koreas are moving swiftly towards reunification. TV-news footage shows families being reunited, sports teams combining members from North and South, road links opening. Now it is the turn of the railways. However, when the Japanese and other foreign representatives fail to appear at a grand ceremony to celebrate the re-opening of the rail link between Seoul and Pyongyang, signs are that reunification may be blocked. The villain behind the scenes proves to be Japan. On the basis of treaties signed, with highly questionable legality, during its take-over of the peninsula, at the beginning of the twentieth century, Japan now lays claim to 'its' railway system. Below I will try to give some idea of what the film is like, unravelling a sample of the narrative - roughly, the first half-hour - and adding a few considerations considering cinematic style plus a brief introduction to three of the film's cast. Then, after some consideration of the makers of the film and of the critical reaction to Hanbando, the essay will return to look at several general aspects of film content and style. On the way to a conclusion, some observations will extend to recent Japanese films and to the Japanese media market for South Korean film. Rather than simply criticize the film, though criticize it I will, this essay will try to suggest how a an artistic and financial failure can teach us some interesting lessons about South Korea's contemporary film culture.
2008	New ancestral shrines in South KoreaSince the collapse of the cold war's geopolitical order in the early 1990s and the related decline of communism or anti-communism as viable political ideologies, there have been several important changes in the political life of South Koreans. One notable change is found in the domain of ancestor worship. Many communities are now reshaping their ancestral rites into a more inclusive form, introducing demonstratively into them the memories of the dead who, previously labelled as supporters of communism, had been invisible in public memory. In places where people experienced the global cold war as a violent communal conflict, the above development involves difficult negotiations between the community's politically bifurcated ancestral heritages. This article examines a set of new ancestral shrines erected as part of this communal effort to repair the broken genealogical condition, and enters into critical dialogue with an influential idea in contemporary scholarship about social development beyond the cold war.
2008	Changing perceptions of inward foreign direct investment in Post-Crisis Korea (1998-2006)This article analyses trends in inward foreign direct investment (IFDI) in post-crisis Korea, focusing on the problems facing the Korean government in its efforts to attract higher levels of inward FDI by changing both the nation's 'hardware' (laws, regulations, institutions and systems) and its 'software' (attitudes, mindsets and actions). The article uses European investors in Korea as a case study; the major theme that emerged in the interviews carried out with executives was that there are significant mismatches between the speed and effectiveness of the reforms made to Korea's IFDI 'hardware' and 'software'. These reflect, to a great extent, the disparity between the speed at which Korea has emerged as a major player and key trading partner in the global economy, and the rate at which mindsets and attitudes have altered - in terms of Koreans' attitudes towards foreign participation in their economy, their perceptions of the world and their place in it, and foreigners' views of Korea. The past thirty years have seen a dramatic increase in global flows of foreign direct investment, with both inflows and outflows rising from around the US$18 billion mark in the early 1970s to the US$450 billion level by the late 1990s. Since the 1990s, investment flows to developing countries have been facilitated by a shift in perceptions of inward foreign direct investment away from the negative and unwelcoming attitude adopted in the 1970s and 1980s to a much more positive assessment of the potential benefits of IFDI and the contribution it can make to economic development and growth.2 This shift in perception was particularly evident in East Asia, where some countries opened their markets to foreign investors in the hope of attracting the capital, technology and expertise needed to enhance their firms' competitiveness in global markets (Kim Zu Kweon 2003: 86-90). In Korea3, however, the negative perceptions of IFDI, the passive and reactive attitudes of successive governments towards inward investment promotion, and the controlling and restrictive nature of their IFDI policies remained largely unchanged for the first 35 years of the country's economic development. It was only after the financial crisis of 1997 that the government took active steps to increase Korea's attractiveness as a host for inward investment, reflecting a new perception of the role that foreign investors could play in helping the country recover from the crisis and creating a firm foundation for sustainable growth in the future. This article begins with a brief overview of past inward foreign direct investment in Korea, providing the context for the analysis of inward investment in post-crisis Korea (1998-2006) that follows. Using European investors in Korea as a case study, the analysis focuses on the problems facing the Korean government in terms of its efforts to attract higher levels of IFDI by changing both the nation's 'hardware' (its laws, regulations, institutions and systems) and its 'software' (the attitudes and actions of its people).
2008	Monetary policy and country riskThis article develops an econometric model in order to study country risk behaviour for six emerging economies (Argentina, Mexico, Russia, Thailand, Korea and Indonesia), by expanding the country beta risk model of Harvey and Zhou (1993), Erb et al. (1996a, b) and Gangemi et al. (2000). Towards this end, we have analysed the impact of macroeconomic variables, especially monetary policy, upon country risk, by way of a time-varying parameter approach. The results indicate an unstable effect of monetary policy upon country risk in periods of crisis. However, this effect is stable in other periods, and the Favero-Giavazzi effect is not verified for all economies, with an opposite effect being observed in many cases.
2008	The 'Flying Geese Development' model of the IT industry in East AsiaThe IT industry developed in the United States and was then transmitted to Japan and further to Taiwan, South Korea, and China. Adopting the 'Flying Geese development' model as its analytical framework, this paper examines the development of the IT industry and the changes in the exports and imports of the five economies. This paper estimated comparable time series data on the production, export, and import of IT goods and IT services separately for the five economies. It found that the US has already reached the reverse import stage for IT goods while East Asian economies are at the export stage. Furthermore, only the US exports IT services to the other four. It also provides an econometric analysis of the mechanism of international transmission of the IT industry. This paper also takes into account foreign direct investment, OEM, and mobility of IT specialists into the analysis and refers to the possibility of leapfrogging.
2008	From diversification premium to diversification discount during institutional transitionsRecent development of an institution-based theory of corporate diversification has uncovered a diversification premium in emerging economies, suggesting that some business group-affiliated companies may outperform competing firms not affiliated with business groups. Is the diversification premium found in emerging economies likely to hold over time? This article extends the institution-based theory by arguing that as institutional transitions unfold, diversification premium in emerging economies is likely to dissipate over time and eventually become a diversification discount. We empirically draw on a data set from South Korea between 1984 and 1996 involving 84 business groups and 751 group-affiliated and independent firms to substantiate this claim via a "chop shop" method. To the best of our knowledge, this represents the first study that documents the longitudinal process of how a diversification premium becomes a diversification discount during institutional transitions. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2008	Korean unification: How painful and how costly?Unification between two countries is not a purely economic phenomenon but a multidimensional phenomenon. We evaluate the prospects of unification between South Korea and North Korea from a multidimensional perspective encompassing the political, social, economic and technological dimensions. To do so, we use the Global Dimension of Regional Integration model developed by [Ruiz, M. A. (2004). The Global Dimension of Regional Integration Model (GDRI-Model), FEA 2004-7. Faculty of Economics and Administration (FEA) Working Papers. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: University of Malaya]. Our main finding is a wide and growing gap between the two Koreas in terms of political, social, economic and technological development as well as overall development. This suggests that inter-Korean unification is likely to be a costly and disruptive process. ⓒ 2007 Society for Policy Modeling.
2008	Regional convergence and efficiency in KoreaThis study evaluates regional convergence and efficiency among 13 regions in Korea over the period 1985-2002 using stochastic frontier production model which allows for regional inefficiency and heterogeneity. Evidence is found in favour of regional convergence in Korea, with a lower rate of convergence of around 2% a year, because we find that inefficiency in production does exist in regional economy. The results also indicate that the improvement of education and reforms of local government policies have contributed to an increased level of efficiency. Since the average estimates of technical efficiency have increased over time, the results show that regional economy has brought the significant improvement in efficiency.
2007	Innovation types and productivity growth: Evidence from Korean manufacturing firmsThe purpose of this paper is to investigate productivity growth according to three types of innovation: product innovation, product improvement, and process innovation, using firmlevel data from the Korea Innovation Survey 2002 about Korean manufacturing companies. This study is conducted in two steps. The first step measures firm-level Malmquist productivity index by data envelopment analysis (DEA). The second step estimates econometric regression models by weighted least square utilizing the productivity index as a dependent variable and each of the innovation types and other characteristics of firms as independent variables. The empirical results partly support the idea that the types of innovation matter in productivity growth. Specifically, process innovation may result in higher productivity performance than product innovation in the short run. This result stems from the difference in efficiency growth when productivity growth is decomposed into two components: efficiency growth and technical growth. That is, product innovation by definition involves product development and radical innovation and so, it can deteriorate efficiency growth relative to other types of innovation due to the process of product development and the adjustments that are needed to new innovations whereas process innovation is implemented to reduce defects, lead time, costs and other factors, and as such is very efficiency orientated. Consequently it helps improve efficiency growth. ⓒ 2007 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2007	A comparative analysis of export price pass-through in three open Asian economies: Korea, Singapore and ThailandThe degree of exchange rate pass-through is of paramount importance to small and open economies as it has a direct impact on domestic inflation as well as the effectiveness of exchange rate as an adjustment tool. High exchange rate pass-through (ERPT) is often cited as a reason for a "fear of floating". This article analyzes the degree of ERPT into the export prices of three Asian economies-Korea, Thailand and Singapore for the period 1980: Q1-2006: Q4 using both US dollar bilateral rates as well as nominal effective exchange rates. The study also examines whether there are asymmetries in ERPT between exchange rate appreciation and depreciation. ⓒ 2007 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2007	The decline of son preference in South Korea: The roles of development and public policyFor years, sex ratios at birth kept rising in South Korea despite rapid development. We show that this was not an anomaly: Underlying son preference fell with development, but the effect of son preference on sex ratios at birth rose until the mid-1990s as a result of improved sex-selection technology. Now South Korea leads Asia with a declining sex ratio at birth. We explore how son preference was affected by development and by public policy. Decomposition analysis indicates that development reduced son preference primarily through triggering normative changes across society-rather than just in individuals whose socioeconomic circumstances had changed. The cultural underpinnings of son preference in preindustrial Korea were unraveled by industrialization and urbanization even as public policies sought to uphold the patriarchal family system. Our results suggest that child sex ratios in China and India may decline before those countries reach South Korean levels of development, since the governments of both countries vigorously promote normative change to reduce son preference. ⓒ 2007 The Population Council, Inc.
2007	Growth by trade-induced adjustmentsThis article measures the impact of trade adjustment on the growth in the Korean economy. Using principal components trade adjustments are found to significantly explain the rate of growth over the period of 1989-2004. We also focused on the case of bilateral trade with China.
2007	Why is the gender earnings gap greater in Korea than in the United States?It has long been recognized that the gender earnings gap varies across countries. This paper examines the relatively higher gender earnings gap found in the Korean labor market compared to the US labor market. Using the data set representative of the population for both countries, I found that the significant part of the differences in the gender earnings gap simply arise from the differences in the observed characteristics of women among two countries. In particular, relatively lower labor market experience, current job tenure, and educational attainment by Korean female workers play dominant roles in explaining the observed higher earnings gap. In addition, wage structure and labor market discrimination seem to be against Korean female workers compared to US female workers. J. Japanese Int. Economies 21 (4) (2007) 455-469. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Rajin-Seonbong, new gateway of Northeast AsiaThe economic zone of Rajin-Seonbong (Raseon) is located at the north-eastern border of North Korea, adjacent to China and Russia. Although its attractiveness to foreign investors has remained limited since its creation in 1991, Raseon is of growing interest as a transit port for Russian and Chinese trade. This paper reviews some theories on the constraints and advantages of remotely located ports, arguing that limited economic base can be overcome by a strategy based on transhipment flows to and from China, South Korea, Russia and Japan. In particular, it develops the idea that economic factors, such as remoteness from the nation's core region, are not sufficient to explain the uneven success of the project. More likely is the mismatch between local industries and port facilities. Unlike the Chinese free-trade zone experiment, port and logistics development in North Korea may take place prior to industrial development, strengthening Raseon as a potential gateway and growth pole in Northeast Asia. ⓒ Springer-Verlag 2007.
2007	State formation and the origins of developmental states in South Korea and IndonesiaThis article addresses the question why developmental states emerged where they did, with a focus on the cases of South Korea and Indonesia. The analysis centers on state developmental structures, not on developmental roles or pro-growth policies. In contrast with existing scholarship that stresses colonial legacies, I argue that intraelite and elite-mass interactions, especially, but not necessarily during state formation, are the primary origin of developmental states. The framework suggested here not only fills in a critical theoretical lacuna in the developmental state literature, but also contributes to the debate on the relationship between regime types and development.
2007	Evolutionary characteristics of China's intermediate manufacturesChina's economic development is characterized by progressive integration with international production chains as an assembly producer. Japan and South Korea are the major partners providing intermediate products to China. The present paper analyzes the Chinese intermediate sector's present condition and evolutionary characteristics revealed in bilateral trade with Japan and South Korea. The analysis uses the framework of new trade theory represented by "intra-industry trade". Trade statistics from 1997 to 2004 are analyzed using the database published by the OECD. Results show that China's inter-industrial evolution is characterized by its expanding positioning in the manner of the flying geese development paradigm of Asian countries. Furthermore, intra-industrial evolution is characterized by a concentration on price competitiveness. The framework and results of the industrial analysis presented in this paper assist in the understanding of China's manufacturing evolution and of the policy-making decisions taken in the process. ⓒ 2007 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2007	Dynamic linkages between exchange rates and stock prices: Evidence from East Asian marketsThis study examines dynamic linkages between exchange rates and stock prices for seven East Asian countries, including Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, and Thailand, for the period January 1988 to October 1998. Our empirical results show a significant causal relation from exchange rates to stock prices for Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, and Thailand before the 1997 Asian financial crisis. We also find a causal relation from the equity market to the foreign exchange market for Hong Kong, Korea, and Singapore. Further, while no country shows a significant causality from stock prices to exchange rates during the Asian crisis, a causal relation from exchange rates to stock prices is found for all countries except Malaysia. Our findings are robust with respect to various testing methods used, including Granger causality tests, a variance decomposition analysis, and an impulse response analysis. Our findings also indicate that the linkages vary across economies with respect to exchange rate regimes, the trade size, the degree of capital control, and the size of equity market. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Managing in the middle: Characterizing Singapore's exchange rate policyIt is by now common knowledge that there can be a significant divergence in the de facto versus de jure exchange rate regimes operated by economies. Although much of the recent published literature in Asia has focused on the crisis-hit economies, Korea and Thailand in particular, scant attention has been paid to Singapore, which officially targets its nominal effective exchange rate (around a band). The present paper examines the degree of exchange rate intervention for Singapore using various methods of assessing de facto exchange rate regimes. In the main, we show that although the Singapore dollar is primarily influenced by the US dollar, in keeping with its de jure classification of a basket pegged regime, other major currencies, such as the yen and the euro, also impact the Singapore dollar. There is also evidence to indicate that Singapore uses the nominal effective exchange rate strategically as a policy instrument to satisfy domestic inflation objectives. ⓒ 2007 The Author Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2007	Venture capitalists' decision policies across three countries: An institutional theory perspectiveThis paper examines the influence of economic institutions upon venture capitalists' (VCs) decision policies. We conducted policy-capturing experiments on 119 VCs across three countries, representing distinct economic institutions (US, mature market economy; South Korea, emerging economy; and China, transitional economy). Results show that VCs in rules-based market economies (US) rely upon market information to a greater extent than VCs in emerging economies (Korea), and Chinese VCs (transitional economy) weight human capital factors more heavily than either US or Korean VCs. Findings suggest that, although professional institutions may dictate which information is included in VC decision policies, the extent to which that information is emphasized is determined partly by the economic institution in which the decision-maker operates. ⓒ 2007 Academy of International Business. All rights reserved.
2007	Four tigers and the dragon: Values differences, similarities, and consensusThis study examines the influence of economic and political factors that contribute to the convergence and/or divergence in value priorities of five East Asian societies-China, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. We find that political and social-economic factors influence the values orientations of managers within this region. However, economic development level is an insufficient explanation for values convergence without consideration of the societal context and cultural traditions in which that development occurred. ⓒ Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2007.
2007	From technological catch-up to innovation-based economic growth: South Korea and Taiwan comparedThis paper sets out to analyse the divergent models pursued by South Korea and Taiwan in regard to technological catching-up and their ongoing transition towards innovation-based economies. It is found that South Korea's former high-debt and chaebol-dominated model inclined it to pursue a Schumpeterian scale-based technological development, while Taiwan's former pro-stability, small- and medium-sized-enterprise (SME)-based model tended to favour its emphasis on a neo-Marshallian network-based technological development. It will be argued that the state's approach to economic liberalisation and firms' demand for capital for technological upgrading are the major factors that have underpinned the adjustment efforts of these two countries.
2007	Economic convergence in seven Asian economiesThe impressive economic growth in a select group of Asian economies in the last several decades prompts some to argue that authoritarianism helps rapid economic growth while democracy hampers it. In this paper, we used the panel data approach to test this hypothesis for seven Asian economies, including South Korea, Singapore, and China. Our results reject the strong version of this hypothesis but fail to reject the weak version of it. Specifically, we found insignificant impacts of political freedom but significant effects of economic freedom on advancing economic convergence in these economies. ⓒ 2007 The Authors; Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2007	Information technology, efficiency and productivity: Evidence from Korean local governmentsThis study evaluates the performance of Korean local government by measuring their technical efficiency (TE) and total factor productivity  growth and, more importantly, examining the impact of information technology (IT) on this performance. The study is different from received analysis in that a unique measure of the state of IT-the Informatization Index-is used to investigate the impact of IT on both TE and TFP growth. Empirical analyses are conducted on data from 222 Korean local governments for the period 1999 to 2001. In particular, data envelopment analysis techniques are applied to calculate TE scores and TFP growth rates for sampled local governments. The empirical findings confirm the positive impact IT has in improving technical efficiency and accelerating productivity growth. The estimated coefficients are correctly signed (with other regional characteristics controlled for) when TE scores and TFP growth rates are regressed on the Index. In addition, the findings indicate that economies of density are present in the production of local public services.
2007	A comparative analysis of inter-industry wage differentials: Before and after the Korean financial crisisKorean economy has changed rapidly since the 1997 Korean financial crisis. This article investigates whether the inter-industry wage differentials in the Korean manufacturing industry are consistent over time and how the inter-industry wage structure has changed after the financial crisis. We used the 1995 and 1999 survey report on the wage structure-Korea. Our empirical results provide evidences for a wider inter-industry wage differentials and changes of the wage structure. After the crisis, company size, region (live in capital), sex, tenure, education are more critical to determine wages. According to factor analysis, the job quality factor is most closely related to wages before the crisis, while the industry attributes factor does in 1999.
2007	Evidence of the duration-dependence from the stock markets in the Pacific Rim economiesThis article investigates the duration-dependent feature of five Pacific Rim economies. The duration-dependent Markov Switching model is employed to achieve this objective. The Savage-Dickey density ratio is also computed in support of the duration-dependent Markov switching model. The possible bull and bear market dates for each stock market are also identified by the posterior probability from the empirical model. It is unambiguous that Japan, South Korea and Hong Kong are all characterized by duration-dependence in a bear market but no duration-dependence in a bull market. In the case of Taiwan and Singapore, the duration-dependence feature holds for both the bear and bull markets.
2007	What caused the Korean currency crisis in 1997?: Weak fundamentals or self-fulfilling expectationsThe present paper investigates which factor is primarily responsible for the sharp depreciation of the Korean won against the US dollar in 1997, using a bivariate vector autoregressive model of real and nominal exchange rates. In the present study, we directly identify the relative importance of fundamental and non-fundamental factors from the raw data series on exchange rates. This approach is different from most previous studies on the Korean currency crisis, which use proxy variables to represent the two factors. The empirical results show that the collapse of the Korean currency in 1997 appears to be mostly a result of the weakened macroeconomic fundamentals of the economy with, to a limited extent, some non-fundamental factors. ⓒ 2007 The Authors Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2007	Universities, Clusters, and Innovation Systems: The Case of Seoul, KoreaMany policy-makers believe that strong university-industry relationships and high-technology clusters are the keys to development. The Korean experience suggests that the most important contribution of universities to economic development was not through the transfer of research results, rather it was indirect and through the preparation of high-quality graduates. Korean universities and research institutes (URIs) have contributed little to the creation of clusters with the exception of a cluster of spin-offs from government research institutes in Daeduck. The role of URIs may be changing to an entrepreneurial focus, but the strategy of concentrating on training graduates has achieved considerable success. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
2007	Price dispersion across and within countries: The case of Japan and KoreaThis paper analyzes the price difference between Japan and Korea by using goods-level consumer price data. The national border has a large effect on price dispersion in both time-series volatility analysis and cross-sectional difference analysis. By categorizing goods by their perishability, I find that absolute purchasing power parity (PPP) applies to a greater extent for durable goods. Although perishables deviate more from absolute PPP, the difference is due to distance. This implies that the source of price dispersion depends on the characteristics of goods. J. Japanese Int. Economies 21 (2) (2007) 237-259. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Characteristics and performance of institutional and foreign investors in Japanese and Korean stock marketsThis study examines the characteristics of the stock ownership by institutional and foreign investors, as well as their effects on stock price performance in Japan and Korea. The main results of this study are summarized as follows. First, foreign investors have a clearer preference for stocks with large capitalization and low book-to-market ratios than do institutional investors in both Japanese and Korean stock markets. Second, foreign investors prefer stocks with a high return on equity, especially in Korea. Third, average returns have more apparent differentiation among institutional (foreign) ownership portfolios than among foreign (institutional) ownership portfolios in Japan (Korea). Fourth, the stocks that are preferred simultaneously by both institutional and foreign investors show statistically significant positive abnormal returns in both Korea and Japan, whereas those preferred by either institutional or foreign investors show statistically significant positive abnormal returns only in Korea. The institutional investors' incentive for stock holding, the extent of stock market efficiency, and stock price polarization could be the possible explanations for the different empirical results observed for Japan and Korea. J. Japanese Int. Economies 21 (2) (2007) 195-213. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Trade bloc formation in inter-war Japan. A gravity model analysisThe purpose of this paper is to discuss the trading system in the inter-war period concerning the Japanese Empire by means of border effect analysis in the gravity model. The results show sizeable and steadily increasing trading bloc border effects from the 1910s through the 1930s. This sizeable border effect might have resulted from many possible factors: trade diversion and creation due to increased protectionism and industrialisation in Korea and Formosa, certain political factors, and Japanese migration to Korea and Formosa, which contributed to a 52% increase of bloc border effects in mainland Japan. J. Japanese Int. Economies 21 (2) (2007) 214-236. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Advocacy coalitions and health politics in KoreaThis article analyses the political dynamics underlying health care reform in Korea after the Asian economic crisis. The reform was a significant volte-face in respect of the social policy paradigm, which now aims to enhance equity in National Health Insurance. The article pays special attention to the evolution of the advocacy coalition for equity in health policy and how it developed the two attributes required for successful policy change: institutional strength and the elaboration of policy rationale for reform. This process was not a simple linear development but a combination of setbacks and advances. The article also takes into consideration the structural conditions that set the policy environment over the course of the advocacy coalition's evolution since the 1960s. In short, the policy reform of 2000 was not a simple policy change in response to the economic crisis, but rather the outcome of the long-term evolution of the advocacy coalition for equity in health policy. ⓒ 2007 The Author(s) Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2007	The rules of the game: The politics of national pensions in KoreaThis article explores the conditions in which policy changes occur over time. It studies the institutional pathways taken by national pensions in Korea over an extended period by identifying the key moments which have pushed through their development: initiation (1973), implementation (1988) and reform (1998). Public pensions have developed over time in an incremental fashion, bringing an ever-growing proportion of the population under their umbrella. What accounts for this development? A number of factors may be at work. The elderly population has rapidly increased; the traditional extended family has increasingly become a nuclear one, meaning that what used simply to be a family issue of protecting the elderly has become a social matter; urbanization and industrialization have resulted in an ever-growing number of life-time contingencies such as unexpected income losses. Convincing as these socio-economic accounts may seem, however, they offer only a snapshot, underscoring the politics of national pensions which stretch over long periods. This article seeks to answer how and in whose interest national pensions come on to the political agenda; how they are framed and defined; and how political actors respond to pressures for national pension reform. In each of the three stages, it is suggested, somewhat different institutional rules have operated. Defining institutional rules as 'the process of who gets represented in the decision-making processes', this article identifies the different institutional rules which have played a pivotal role in the social policy-making processes. ⓒ 2007 The Author(s) Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2007	Economic liberalisation for high-tech industry development? Lessons from China's response in developing the ICT manufacturing sector compared with the strategies of Korea and TaiwanThis paper argues that China's response to economic liberalisation, which artificially focuses on promoting particular sizes of firms, cannot improve technological capabilities in the ICT manufacturing industry. Not only have historical and economic conditions created difficulties in adopting Korean and Taiwanese style policies, but also competitive ICT firms in the global economy are increasingly moving from manufacturing to innovation activities against a backdrop of increasing economic liberalisation. Given the WTO and ITA agreements, the main path which Korea and Taiwan employed is now unavailable. The government therefore should leave the size of firms to market forces.
2007	Transportation of Korean slave laborers during World War II: Kanfu ferriesJapan was more dependent upon ocean shipping than any other major power during World War II, and the sea route had been the only means of transportation between Korea and Japan. The connecting steamers contributed to Japan's wartime economy by transporting not only raw materials, but also forced laborers and sex slaves between Korea and Japan. More importantly, these connecting steamers were linked to railroads and land routes in Korea and were connected to various systems of transportation, including merchant ships and regular liners outside Japan. In this paper, we examine how Korean laborers and sex slaves were mobilized and transported from Korea to Japan during World War II by focusing on the interdependent relations between railroad-connecting ships and a travel agency. ⓒ Springer Science + Business Media B.V. 2007.
2007	State, society, and economic development in sports life cycles: The case of boxing in KoreaThis study documents the rise and fall of boxing in Korea since its introduction in 1912. The participation of amateur athletes in boxing has decreased sharply since the 1980s. Also, the popularity of professional boxing among sports fans has diminished in recent decades. I consider boxing as a "product" that is "consumed" by individuals as participants and fans. I apply product life-cycle theory in analyzing the changing popularity of boxing. I argue that changes in the tastes of sports fans are closely linked to economic development, industrialization and standard of living. I present the rise in the popularity of soccer, baseball, and golf as illustrations of the changing tastes of consumers of sports that have accompanied economic development and social changes as well as the changing government policies on sports. ⓒ Springer Science + Business Media B.V. 2007.
2007	Regional ties and discrimination: Political change, economic crisis, and job displacements in South Korea, 1997-99Probing into the incidence of job displacements during the 1997-99 recession period, this study offers theoretically grounded micro-causal explanations for regional ties and regional discrimination in South Korea. Our statistical analysis reveals the significant impact of a worker's birth region (the basis of regional ties and discrimination) on the layoff process. Native Kyongsang workers are found to have faced higher rates of layoff in Seoul-Kyongki regional firms than native Jolla workers during the recession period. The Kyongsang-Jolla layoff rate gap is mainly due to differential treatment rather than a difference in observable characteristics. The findings suggest that the problem of regional ties and regional discrimination is more deep-rooted and widespread in South Korea than previously reported. ⓒ 2007 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ 2007 Institute of Developing Economies.
2007	International reserves management and capital mobility in a volatile world: Policy considerations and a case study of KoreaThis paper characterizes the precautionary demand for international reserves driven by the attempt to reduce the incidence of costly output decline induced by sudden reversal of short-term capital flows. It validates the main predictions of the precautionary approach by investigating changes in the patterns of international reserves in Korea in the aftermath of the 1997-1998 crisis. This crisis provides an interesting case study, especially because of the rapid rise in Korea's financial integration in the aftermath of the East Asian crisis, where foreigners' shareholding has increased to 40% of total Korean market capitalization. We show that the crisis led to structural change in the hoarding of international reserves, and that the Korean monetary authority gives much greater attention to a broader notion of 'hot money,' inclusive of short-term debt and foreigners' shareholding. J. Japanese Int. Economies 21 (1) (2007) 1-15. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Korea's public sector relocation: Is it a viable option for balanced national development?An empirical model combining economic, demographic, and migration models was built in order to analyse the effectiveness of public sector relocation plans for balanced national development. Five different relocation scenarios were tested. The major findings were as follows. First, relocating about 40 000 public sector jobs from the Seoul Metropolitan Region (SMR) to non-SMR regions (scenarios 2-5) is not sufficient to reverse the SMR population concentration trend by 2030. Second, relocating central governmental functions (9992 employees) to the Chungnam region has little impact on mitigating SMR population concentration and on attaining balanced national development. Third, the relocation plan proposed by the Korean government, which is scenario 2, alleviates the population concentration by decreasing the SMR population by 5.4%, but many non-capital regions lose their population because the numbers of public sector employees assigned to the non-SMR regions are not large enough to attract people to those regions. Fourth, and most importantly, relocating private firms with high inter-industry linkages is a better policy option for increasing the population in non-capital regions, and hence attaining balanced national growth, rather than moving public sectors.
2007	Estimates of the ICAPM with regime-switching betas: Evidence from four Pacific Rim economiesThis article examines the relation between stock returns and the World Index for four Pacific Rim economies, i.e. that of Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea and Malaysia. When the constant International Capital Asset Pricing Model (ICAPM) and the regime-switching ICAPM are considered, the evidence shows that the estimated beta coefficients from the constant ICAPM model underestimates systemic risk under the high-volatility regime, but overestimates systemic risk under the low-volatility regime. In addition, the evidence is strong that the stock markets of Taiwan and Malaysia are less risky for traders, whereas that of South Korea is risk-neutral. The Hong Kong Hang Seng stock index, on the other hand, is highly risky for both speculators and investors. On the weight of the evidence, it is suggested that estimates of the ICAPM should account for the changes in betas over time and over different variance regimes.
2007	Optimal monetary policy in a small open economy: The case of KoreaIn this paper, we set up a new Keynesian model with imperfect pass-through effect to explore the effect of monetary policy in Korea. Key parameter values are estimated with Kalman filtering and a maximum likelihood estimation method. In our model, inflation-targeting rule still dominates alternative monetary rules in welfare dimension. ⓒ 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Quality of imports relative to exports, and the transmission of sustained growth through the terms of tradeThis paper shows that an economy can import sustained growth, in spite of not possessing mechanisms to absorb foreign knowledge. To do that, it develops a two-country model of exogenous growth with investment-specific technological change. In autarky, one country sustainably grows while the other economy remains stagnant. In the trade situation, the quality-adjusted terms of trade become increasingly favourable to the second economy, which results in the transmission of growth. The continuous improvement in the quality of imported capital goods relative to exported consumption goods is the reason why this occurs. Moreover, this mechanism leads to convergence in per capita income if trade involves incomplete specialisation. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	East Asian Economic Growth and its Implications for Regional SecurityRapid economic growth in East Asia is changing the nature of international relations in the region. In the economic sphere, mercantilist policies of promoting exports and limiting imports contributed to economic tensions between rapidly growing economies in the region and the region's major trading partner, the United States. These tensions over bilateral trade issues began between Japan and United States, moved on next to South Korea and Taiwan, and have now moved from there to China. In the security field, economic growth in China is leading to a major shift in the balance of power in the region. China's steadily increasing GDP is being accompanied by a comparable rise in its military expenditures despite the fact that China faces no obvious external threats at the present time. China's long term desire to be able to defend against any outside power probably means that this increase in defense expenditures will continue for the next decade or two. North Korea continues to be a threat to stability in the region but only because of its capacity to do enormous damage in one last suicidal attack. The one area where China's rising military expenditures could lead to major confrontation on terms very different from those that would occur today is Taiwan. This is a revised version of an essay titled “Economic Growth in Northeast Asia: Implications for Security” that was prepared for the conference Pursuing Security in a Dynamic Northeast Asia, convened by The National Bureau of Asian Research to mark the launch of the Kenneth B. and Anne H.H. Pyle Center for Northeast Asian Studies, Seattle, WA, November 17?18, 2006, and that was published in Asia Policy, no. 3 (January 2007): 42?47. ⓒ 2007, The National Bureau of Asian Research (NBR).
2007	Households' preferences and exchange rate overshootingThis paper uses a ‘New-Open-Economy Macroeconomic’ model to study the effect of a shock to Households' preferences on exchange rate dynamics. The special features of the model are that Households' preferences exhibit a ‘catching-up with the Joneses’ effect and that international financial markets are imperfectly integrated. Results of numerical simulations of the model demonstrate that these features imply that, in an otherwise standard ‘New-Open-Economy Macroeconomic’ model, a shock to Households' preferences can give rise to an overshooting of the exchange rate. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	Globalization, financial liberalization and the behavior of the long run money demand in the bangladesh economyThe paper estimates the long run demand for money function in the Bangladesh economy using cointegration and the Vector Error Correction Modeling (VECM) technique. The cointegration results suggest that although the process of globalization has shown no significant impact on money demand by the fact that the foreign interest rate is seen as statistically not significant, the financial liberalization has an important impact, reflected in the statistically significant role of domestic interest rate, in influencing both M1 and M2 money demand. An estimate of VECMs also reveals the fact that the short run speed of adjustment is moderately influenced by the financial reform measures to establish the long run relation between money balances, income and domestic interest rates. The phenomenon of credit constraint in the context of a developing country has shown no significant role in influencing money demand, which may imply that the stage of financial development is getting higher level in the Bangladesh economy. The existence of exchange rate depreciation in the cointegration relation with the expected sign suggests that currency substitution is now effective in the monetary sector and, therefore, its impact should be considered in the Bangladesh monetary policy matrix. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	Financial liberalization and inflationary dynamics: an open economy analysisThis paper analyzes the effects of financial liberalization on inflation. We develop an open economy monetary endogenous growth general equilibrium model, with financial intermediaries subjected to obligatory ‘high’ reserve ratio, serving as the source of financial repression. When calibrated to four Southern European semi-industrialized countries, namely Greece, Italy, Spain and Portugal, which typically had high reserve requirements, the model indicates a positive inflation?financial repression relationship irrespective of the specification of preferences. But the strength of the relationship obtained from the model is found to be much smaller in size than the corresponding empirical estimates. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	A threshold analysis of the relationship between governance and growthQuality of governance has been found to be significant in economic growth. We investigate, using a threshold technique, whether the quality of governance matters equally across all levels of economic development. We find that the quality of governance is most significant for only a subset of relatively poor countries, while education is most significant for the poorest countries, and region is most significant for the wealthiest. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	Another look at the Relationship between Telecommunications Investment and Economic Activity in the United StatesIn a recent issue of this journal, Beil et al. (2005, hereafter, BFJ) examined the relationship between telecommunications investment and economic growth in the United States over the period 1947?1996. Based on results from Granger-Sims test, BFJ conclude that ‘… investment by telecommunications firms is caused by, but does not cause, economic activity, and the findings are robust across lag lengths’. However, using another version of the Granger causality test due to Toda & Yamamoto (1995) and the same data set transformed into natural logarithms, the evidence in this paper indicates a feedback where there was a bi-directional causality between telecommunications investment and economic growth. This seems to suggest that policies aimed at stimulating the US economy by accelerating investment in the telecommunications sector may be successful. ⓒ 2007, Korea International Economic Association.
2007	Institutional competitiveness and institutional aging: The dynamism of East Asian GrowthThis study investigates the international dynamism of rapid economic growth in East Asia: Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and China. It finds that underlying East Asian Growth is the competitiveness of the institutional setting that makes up for the insufficiency in normal conditions for economic growth in these countries. More importantly, the institutional setting that generates such competitiveness has a logic of its own. This logic affects the formation and change of the setting and determines under what conditions and to what extent such an institutional setting is effective in each of these countries. The study highlights the systematic and dynamic nature of East Asian Growth. It takes the institutional setting as a central problem in explaining the historical patterns of rapid economic development in East Asia, and builds on rational choice and historical institutionalism for a more effective explanation.
2007	Towards understanding the Asian crisis and its aftermathDuring the 1997 economic crisis in Asia, we observed that several East Asian economies encountered significant external and internal shocks that led to a widespread economic recession. The severe exchange rate depreciation may have harmed the supply side of these economies such that production was contracted. Many argue that the initial tightened domestic policies aimed at countering these shocks and restoring economic growth may have further exacerbated the initial crisis by contracting the domestic sector. This paper analyzes the impact of anticipated and unanticipated changes in the real exchange rate, fiscal spending, the money supply, and energy prices on output and price in Korea, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand. The results indicate that anticipated real depreciation during the crisis may have adversely affected the supply side, shrinking output growth while accelerating price inflation. In contrast, the combined effects of supply and demand channels render the outcome of unanticipated currency depreciation inconclusive on output growth and price inflation. Indonesia and Malaysia have experienced a significant reduction in average real output growth beyond the crisis period with a significant increase in domestic price inflation in Indonesia only. In most cases, we credit accommodating policies for countering external shocks.
2007	The Development of East Asian countries towards a knowledge-based economy: A DEA analysisThis paper measures the knowledge-based development of nine countries in the two categories of developed and emerging economies. The developed economies selected include the three bench-marking developed countries from three different regions; they are the United States from the North American region, Finland from Europe and Japan, Korea and Singapore from the Asia region. The emerging economies, on the other hand, include China, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand. The performances of these countries are evaluated by two means: the radar charts and Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). The first analysis shows that developed countries have accumulated more knowledge stock. They have also shaped a better resource environment relative to emerging countries. On the other hand, the DEA scores indicate that four of the small countries, Finland, Malaysia, Singapore and South Korea, are relatively more efficient in generating further K-outputs when compared with the large economic giants such the US and Japan, and also other less-developed peers in term of GNI per capita.
2007	Two new lessons from the asian miraclesFour Asian economies - Hong Kong, Singapore, Korea and Taiwan - have grown at spectacular speeds adopting different strategies. Past debates focused on their growth takeoff. The present paper studies their future outlook. As an economy matures, sustaining economic performance requires innovation and technology upgrading. Hong Kong, under a minimalist administration, is now critically deficient in technology. Singapore, dependent on foreign multinationals, is struggling to become a creator and not just a user of technology. We seek to explain why Hong Kong and Singapore are so much less innovative than Korea and Taiwan.
2007	In search of optimised regional trade agreements and applications to East AsiaWe quantitatively analyse the trade effects of enhanced trade facilitation with extended gravity equations. Our findings confirm that RTAs comprised of countries equipped with better trade facilitation are more likely to be trade-creating, less likely to be trade-diverting, and are thus more likely to lead the world economy toward global free trade. We also find that (i) the traditional gains from shallow integration through eliminating tariff barriers will be greater for South-South RTAs in East Asia such as an ASEAN-China RTA, provided that the tariff-reducing schedule is strictly fulfilled, (ii) the gains from deeper integration through enhancing trade facilitation will be greater for North-North RTAs in East Asia such as a Japan-Korea RTA, and (iii) the gains from a combined trade liberalisation strategy through tariff reductions and enhanced trade facilitation will be greater for North-South RTAs in East Asia such as a China-Korea and an ASEAN+3 RTA. ⓒ 2007 The Authors. Journal compilation ⓒ Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2007.
2007	Market socialism in North Korea: A comparative perspectiveSince the 2002-2003 implementation of economic reforms by the North Korean government, scholars have debated whether they are an attempt at Chinese style reforms and thus a move towards market socialism or merely an effort to strengthen, not replace, the traditional North Korean style chuch'e economic system. To date, with Pyongyang remaining largely silent on the intent of the reforms and continued difficulty in obtaining authoritative details about the state of the economy, no consensus has been reached about the nature and direction of reform. This article addresses the question by developing a multidimensional framework for market socialism against which the reforms can be assessed. Our analysis demonstrates empirical regularities consistent with a multidimensional framework of market socialism across cases and the evidence suggests North Korea has departed from the traditional command economy toward market socialism.
2007	Conglomerate regulation and aggregate concentration in Korea: An empirical analysisThis paper has two purposes; first, to map aggregate concentration in the Korean economy, while being sensitive to the chaebol structure of this economy, and, second, to assess government efforts in recent years to reduce the scale and scope of this aggregate concentration. Concerning the former, to study aggregate concentration in Korea - as it has been studied elsewhere in the world - presents special problems because Korea's development strategy led to the growth of massive conglomerates known as chaebol. While chaebol are business groups composed of many independent firms, they operate in fact just like a single firm. Consequently, to measure aggregate concentration in Korea, it is necessary to develop a measure that operates at the level of the group rather than the individual firm. After employing such a measure, we turn to an assessment of the Korean government's efforts to reduce the economic power held by the chaebol by implementing regulations that would decrease aggregate concentration. We provide a discussion of the history of such regulations and then map levels of aggregate concentration and chaebol growth rates prior to and after the implementation of these regulations. Our findings show that government regulatory efforts had no impact on aggregate concentration because the regulations it introduced and then strengthened focused on certain financial activities of the chaebol. These activities, however, were not important explanatory factors that could explain the growth of chaebol and, thus, aggregate concentration.
2007	Impacts of regional economic integration on industrial relocation through FDI in East AsiaThis paper examines the impacts of regional economic integration on the industrial relocation of participating countries focusing on the role of foreign direct investment. Focusing on the integrating countries' asymmetries in technology and market size, this paper demonstrates that preferential trade agreement increases intra-bloc vertical FDI flows when the integrating countries show large differences in factor costs. Moreover, when the technology gap is relatively large between the integrating countries, inter-bloc horizontal FDI tends to inflow to a county with a higher technology level even though its factor cost is higher. These results imply that Korea-China FTA might increase the inter-bloc horizontal FDI inflows into Korea when Korea has significant technological advantage while the intra-bloc vertical FDI inflows into China might be increased with increased pressure on the Korean economy to specialize in the headquarter service sectors. ⓒ 2006 Society for Policy Modeling.
2006	Do historical events matter in geographic agglomeration? The case of South KoreaThis study examines whether historical events are as important as Krugman (1991a) had suggested they are in determining geographic agglomeration. Using the time series of Korean manufacturing (1955-2003), which is longer than other country studies, the study also examines how the mean reversion factor and dispersion factor have evolved during substantial economic development. The results confirm that industry mobility in Korea is high and the historical events may not be so important in geographic agglomeration of industries. The analysis of the mean reversion factor and dispersion factor supports the argument that transport costs are a major source of change in geographic agglomeration in the long run.
2006	The Korean economy in transition: In search for a new modelPrior to the 1997 financial crisis, the Korean economy had based its growth policies on East Asia's economic catch-up model which was based mainly on the Japanese development experience. However, the events that lead to the 1997 crisis and the changes instituted in the Korean economy after the crisis have put to question whether the traditional East Asian growth model will continue to be viable. This paper examines two alternative models of development, namely the "Anglo-Saxon" and the "Continental European" models, and evaluates their relevance for Korea's future development challenges. Despite many common features these models share, they are also quite distinctive with regard to their treatment of the labor market system and the role of government. By focusing on the model's capacity to expand employment and to provide sustainable growth as the most important criteria, it is suggested that Korea should follow the "Anglo-Saxon model", at least in the short- to medium-term. In comparing Korea's economy with other advanced economies when they were at the similar stage of development, it is found that Korea's growth potential lags behind that of countries such as Japan, Germany, Finland, and Ireland. The efficiency of Korea's investment is found to be only slightly better than Japan while it is inferior to all other advanced economies. Despite these challenges, Korea is apparently moving toward the "Continental European model", with the Korean government increasing its own size and plans for further expenditures on social security and welfare. However, in order to ensure sustainable development with significant job creation, this paper argues that Korea should switch its direction and adopt the "Anglo-Saxon model" as soon as possible. ⓒ 2006 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2006	Capital inflows problem in selected Asian economies in the 1990s revisited: The role of monetary sterilizationThis paper develops a simple model to examine the reasons behind the capital inflow surges into selected Asian economies in the 1990s prior to the financial crisis of 1997-98. The analytical model shows that persistent uncovered interest differentials and consequent capital inflows may be a result of complete monetary sterilization, perfect capital mobility, sluggish response of interest rates to domestic monetary disequilibrium, or some combination of all three. Using the model as an organizing framework, the paper undertakes a series of related simple empirical tests of the dynamic links between international capital flows, the extent to which they are sterilized and uncovered interest rate differentials in the five crisis-hit economies (Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and Thailand) over the period 1990:1-1997:5. ⓒ 2006 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2006	Stabilization of effective exchange rates under common currency basket systemsWe investigate the extent to which a common currency basket peg would stabilize effective exchange rates of East Asian currencies. We use an AMU (Asian Monetary Unit), which is a weighted average of ASEAN10 plus 3 (Japan, China, and Korea) currencies, as a common currency basket to investigate the stabilization effects. We compare our results with another result on stabilization effects of the common G3 currency (the US dollar, the Japanese yen, and the euro) basket in the East Asian countries [Williamson, J., 2005, A currency basket for East Asia, not just China. In: Policy Briefs in International Economics, No. PB05-1. Institute for International Economics]. We obtained the following results: first, the AMU peg system would be more effective in reducing fluctuations of the effective exchange rates of East Asian currencies as a number of countries applied the AMU peg system increases in East Asia. Second, the AMU peg system would more effectively stabilize the effective exchange rates than a common G3 currency basket peg system for four (Indonesia, the Philippines, South Korea, and Thailand) of the seven countries. The results suggest that the AMU peg system would be useful for the East Asian countries whose trade weights on Japan are relatively higher than others. J. Japanese Int. Economies 20 (4) (2006) 590-611. ⓒ 2006.
2006	FDI, exports, and GDP in East and Southeast Asia-Panel data versus time-series causality analysesUsing time-series and panel data from 1986 to 2004, this paper examines the Granger causality relations between GDP, exports, and FDI among China, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand, the eight rapidly developing East and Southeast Asian economies. After reviewing the current literature and testing the properties of individual time-series data, we estimate the VAR of the three variables to find various Granger causal relations for each of the eight economies. We found each country has different causality relations and does not yield general rules. We then construct the panel data of the three variables for the eight economies as a group and then use the fixed effects and random effects approaches to estimate the panel data VAR equations for Granger causality tests. The panel data causality results reveal that FDI has unidirectional effects on GDP directly and also indirectly through exports, and there also exists bidirectional causality between exports and GDP for the group. Our results indicate that the panel data causality analysis has superior results over the time-series causality analysis. Economic and policy implications of our analyses are then explored in the conclusions. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	Transmission of information across international equity marketsThis article provides evidence of information transmission from the United States and Japan to Korean and Thai equity markets. Information is defined as important macroeconomic announcements in the United States, Japan, Korea, and Thailand. Using high-frequency intraday data, I find a large and significant association between developed-economy macroeconomic announcements and emerging-economy equity volatility and trading volume at short time horizons. Previous studies' findings of at most weak evidence of transmission from developed to emerging economies may be due to their use of lower frequency data and their focus on developed-economy financial market innovations as a proxy for information. (JEL E44, G14, G15). ⓒ The Author 2006. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The Society for Financial Studies. All rights reserved.
2006	Consumers' preferences for the attributes of post-PC: Results of a contingent ranking studyWith the explosive growth of the internet and the change in consumer demand, post-PC is emerging as a substitute for the existing desktop PC and laptop PC. post-PC is a new computer which is portable with wireless networking, cheaper than the existing PC and specializing in the specific functions that consumers want. Rudimentary post-PCs such as PDA, web-pad and smart-phone are already in use. In the future, owing to technological progress, the heterogeneity of related companies and the low entry barrier, various post-PCs will be developed. This paper attempts to analyse consumers' willingness-to-pay (WTP) for post-PC with such attributes as portability, CPU speed, data input method (using key board or electric pen), monitor size, and price. To this end, a contingent ranking method is applied, which makes the respondents rank hypothetical post-PC alternatives featuring various combinations of attributes, via a survey data collected in Korea. Using the estimated WTP, the shape and the capacity of future post-PC are predicted and policy implications drawn for national- and company-level R&D strategies.
2006	Understanding the economic development of Korea from a co-evolutionary perspectiveThis paper applied a co-evolutionary perspective to understanding the economic development history of Korea, which is said to have shown almost miraculous economic growth. After reviewing economic policies and the economic situation over the last half-century, we categorized the dynamic competitive strategies of the government and recognized the co-evolutionary development. By way of illustration, we documented the case of Korean automobile industry from a co-evolutionary perspective. In conclusion, we argue that 'learning-by-doing' and the competitive dynamic strategies of the government and market forces are the key factors in understanding the forces underlying this economic success. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	The role of financial development in economic growth: The experiences of Taiwan, Korea, and JapanSince the financial crisis broke out in East Asia, the importance of financial development and stability had been noted. This paper tries to examine the relationship between financial development and the source of growth for three Asian economies, namely, Taiwan, Korea, and Japan. Particularly, we wish to emphasize the role of financial development and structure (including banking and stock markets), monetary and financial policies, as well as the degree of international capital mobility in the economic growth processes. Using the generalized method of moments (GMM) and principal component analysis, we find that (1) high investment had accelerated economic growth in Japan, while high investment to GDP ratio did not necessarily lead to better growth performance if investment did not have been allocated efficiently, e.g. in Taiwan and Korea cases; (2) real export growth rate had contributed to Taiwan and Korea; (3) the finance-aggregate had positive effects on Taiwan's economy, but had negative effect on other countries; (4) the stock market development had positive effects on Taiwan's economic growth; (5) Taiwanese economy suffered less from the Asian financial crisis; (6) after foreign exchange deregulation, capital outflows had negative effects on all three economies, while the effect of capital inflows is negative but insignificant. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	Openness, growth, and inflation: Evidence from South Korea before the economic crisisThe effects of increasing openness on economic growth and inflation are examined for the South Korean economy before the economic crisis of 1997/1998. The framework of analysis is a seven-variable vector autoregressive model. The impulse response functions indicate that a shock to openness has negative effects on the growth rates of output and of the price level, but no longer-run effects. The variance decompositions also indicate significant effects on these variables, and the results appear to be robust across lag lengths, variable orderings, and alternative openness measures. The negative output effect of increasing openness appears to be consistent with some models in which increased international competition due to openness may cause domestic investment to shrink and its reduction would be greater than an increase in capital inflows. In this case, net investment falls. The negative price effect of openness is also consistent with the general belief that increasing openness reduces tariffs and hence lowers import prices. The decrease in net investment also reduces the price level. ⓒ 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	International spillovers and East Asian growth: The experience of Japan, Korea and TaiwanThis study analyses the sources of economic growth for three East Asian economies -Japan, Korea and Taiwan -with special emphasis on international spillovers as an explanation of the differential patterns of growth. Three different proxy measures of international spillovers are constructed in the empirical analysis. Explicitly accounting for country-specific differences, both fixed effect and random effect regressions are applied to obtain coefficient estimates. It is found that technology spillovers going beyond geographic boundaries is a significant determinant of GDP growth for the three East Asian economies. Nevertheless, the direction of the spillover effect differs. For Japan and Korea, the empirical findings support the view that international spillovers contribute to GDP growth. International spillovers, however, are found to have dampened Taiwan's GDP growth during the period 1978 to 1992. These results suggest, for economies whose research effort is relatively low, a negative relationship between productivity and international spillovers might be revealed.
2006	Determining factors for the adoption of e-business: The case of SMEs in KoreaThis study investigates the determining factors of the successful adoption of e-business by small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Korea using survey data. After the major determining factors were identified from the innovation adoption literature and were extracted by applying the principal component analysis to the survey data and by adding the country-specific characteristics of Korea, we conducted empirical analyses to determine the critical success factors for the adoption of e-business by Korean firms. The empirical results which are based on t-tests of the differences between adopters and non-adopters, the linear probability model, and the logit model, all suggest that the important determinants of the successful adoption of e-business by SMEs in Korea are: the CEO's knowledge of information technology (IT)/e-business, relative advantages and benefits from implementing e-business, governmental support, globalization strategy and the North Korean factor. Business size, the cost of e-business adoption and competitive pressure of the industry do not seem to play an important role in the adoption of e-business by Korean SMEs. The policy implications of this study on promoting e-business adoption by SMEs in emerging economies, such as Korea, are also discussed.
2006	Robust monetary framework for ChinaChina faces rising current account surpluses and foreign reserves. Maintaining the fixed exchange rate runs the risk of overheating of the economy. It is desirable to pursue greater flexibility of the exchange rate regime in the short run, and gradual liberalization of capital account transactions in the medium run. Proper sequencing of various steps is recommended to prevent financial crises. Japan's transition from the dollar peg to a more flexible exchange rate system in 1971-1973 is considered to be a mistake, whereas the gradual capital account opening from the mid-1970s to mid-1990s is considered a success. The present study also analyzes Korea's mistake in opening its capital markets too far ahead of exchange rate flexibility, and liberalizing short-term capital rather than long-term capital. The challenge before China is similar to Japan's of 1969-1970, in the sense that the transition from the dollar peg is inevitable and desirable for the country, but decisive actions with proper sequencing are important. ⓒ The Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) 2006.
2006	ASEAN and Northeast Asian energy security: Cooperation or competition?For several decades, Northeast Asia has invested heavily in ASEAN's fossil fuel industries. This investment has been fundamental in ASEAN's industrial and regional development and has also been a main source of foreign exchange. In recent years, however, while energy demand in Japan and Korea has been slowing down, it has begun to increase rapidly in ASEAN at a time when some of its own oil and gas fields are beginning to decline. The sharp rise in ASEAN's demand for energy is partly the result of massive FDI from Northeast Asia in manufacturing enterprises. This investment is enabling ASEAN to become less dependent on the export of fossil fuels for foreign exchange. Indonesia has already announced it is reducing its energy exports to Japan because it wants to use the fuel domestically. Without doubt, the other ASEAN energy exporting countries will also soon be reconsidering their energy export contracts with Northeast Asia.
2006	Can openness be an engine of sustained high growth rates and inflation?. Evidence from Japan and KoreaThe effects of increasing openness on the growth rates of output and of the price level are examined for Japan and Korea. The framework of analysis is a seven-variable vector autoregressive (VAR) model, and the effects of changes in openness are evaluated by computing impulse response functions (IRFs). For both countries, shocks to trade openness are found to have significant, negative effects on economic growth and inflation in the short run, but no longer-run effects. Openness measures in financial markets also have negative effects on economic growth and inflation in Korea, whereas the effects are not significant in Japan. The findings appear consistent with some models in which a domestic economy may suffer a loss due to increased openness of an economy. ⓒ 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	Is East Asia fit for an optimum currency area? An assessment of the economic feasibility of a higher degree of monetary cooperation in East AsiaThis paper attempts to make a contribution to the recent search for a suitable assessment of the economic feasibility of a higher degree of monetary cooperation in East Asia. By using a structural vector autoregression approach as well as a generalized purchasing power parity approach, we find that a larger group of appropriately selected East Asian economies does satisfy the macroeconomic conditions for forming an Optimum Currency Area (OCA). The East Asian group consists of four ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand) and four Northeast Asian economies (Hong Kong SAR, Japan, Republic of Korea, and Taiwan). This finding presents a striking contrast to the existing research results whose policy recommendation has generally been that countries in East Asia should start with a smaller subgroup currency area. It is time that many East Asian economies as a region made a serious effort to pursue a higher degree of monetary cooperation among themselves for forming an OCA. ⓒ 2006 The AuthorsJournal compilation ⓒ 2006 Institute of Developing Economies.
2006	Real exchange rate in China: A long-run perspectiveThis paper investigates the RMB exchange rate from a long-run viewpoint. Whether China's rapid economic growth brought about real exchange rate appreciation between 1975 and 2002 is empirically examined, based on a supply-side model, the Balassa - Semuelson Hypothesis (BSH). The same test is conducted on Japan, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia and India. Our result indicates that the BSH only exists where the industrial structure has been upgraded and the economy has been successfully transformed from an agricultural economy to a manufacturing economy. Interestingly, China, among those where the BSH does not present, appears to be upgrading its industrial and trade structure. We then try to answer the question of why past rapid growth has no significant relationship with the RMB real exchange rate and what factors are underlying the trend of the RMB real exchange rate. We expect an appreciating trend of RMB real exchange rate in the foreseeable future, presuming that China's industrial upgrading process continues and the factors pertaining to the BSH's prediction, such as rise of wage rates in both tradables and nontradables, become more significant. ⓒ The official journal of The Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) 2006.
2006	Linking the technological regime to the technological catch-up: Analyzing Korea and Taiwan using the US patent dataThis article examines the relationship between the technological regime and the technological catch-up, using US patent data. This study first extends the notion of technological regimes as more appropriate for the catching-up context before it goes on to develop the quantitative expressions of technological regime variables. Then, it investigates in which technological classes technological catch-up tends either to occur or not to occur and what affects the speed of the catch-up. This study has found that catching-up is more likely to happen in those technological classes with shorter technological cycle time and more initial stock of knowledge and that among those candidate classes the actual speed of catch-up varies depending on appropriability and knowledge accessibility. This implies that the factors that determine the occurrence of catch-up and the speed of catch-up are different. Comparing the level of technological capability of the advanced and catching-up economies, the article has found that catching-up countries tend to achieve high levels in the technological sectors with shorter cycle time, easier access to knowledge, and higher appropriability, whereas the advanced countries show the exactly opposite performances. The study also confirms the organizational selection hypothesis such that the firms of different organizations and strategies show divergent degrees of fitness in the different environment or technological regime. We find that the Korean firms find themselves more fitted to technological regimes featured by low appropriability and high cumulativeness (persistence), whereas the Taiwanese firms are more fitted to technological regimes featured by high appropriability and low cumulativeness (persistence). Our findings are consistent with the following characterization of the firms in Korea and Taiwan. The Korean firms, dominated by the so-called Chaebols especially in patent registrations, are characterized as less flexible, large diversified conglomerates and pursing more independent R&D and learning strategies. The Taiwanese firms are characterized as more flexible, network-based, specialized firms and pursuing more cooperative R&D and learning strategies. ⓒ 2006 Oxford University Press.
2006	The geography of learning and knowledge acquisition among Asian latecomersThis paper examines the geography of technological learning and knowledge acquisition among Taiwanese and Korean firms. Specifically it focuses on the knowledge sourcing experience of Asian manufacturing latecomers in the United States (US). The Asian latecomer model of learning is characterized by a triangular spatial division of knowledge sourcing and technological production that involves the transfer and circulation of knowledge across multiple spatial scales. At the regional level, Korean and Taiwanese firms rely on local learning systems in the form of science parks to create favorable domestic agglomeration economies that are conducive for knowledge accretion. At the trans-regional level, non-core R&D and the manufacturing of technology-driven products are geographically concentrated in China. Lastly, local and trans-regional learning are supplemented by international sourcing of knowledge through the location and investment of R&D facilities in the US. To the extent that extra-local knowledge sourcing in the US is associated with the acquisition of new knowledge forms, such a multiscalar spatial strategy is expected to help transform Asian learners from technology latecomer to technology newcomer status. ⓒ 2006 Oxford University Press.
2006	A method to allocate GDP statistical discrepancyThere is a considerable discrepancy between GDP estimates which should be equal to one another. A method of allocating this discrepancy is proposed to derive an accurate measure of GDP with applications to the US and Korean economies. ⓒ 2006 Taylor & Francis.
2006	Executive compensation, firm performance, and corporate governance in China: Evidence from firms listed in the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchangesThe nature of the pay-performance link for top management in group of firms from the largest transition economy in the world, China, was studied. An attempt was made to explore how these firms relate their executive compensation to their form performance and how such relationships are influenced by their ownership structure. Consistently for firms listed in China's emerging stock market, statistically significant sensitivities and elasticities of cash compensation for the highest-paid executives with respect to shareholder value were found. The size of the estimated sensitivities and elasticities was comparable to or greater than what has been found for other countries namely the United States, Japan, and Korea. Furthermore, sales growth was found to be linked to executive compensation in China's listed firms and that Chinese executives are penalized for making negative profits although they are neither penalized nor rewarded for changes in profit insofar as it is positive.
2006	The relationship between the characteristics of transportation energy consumption and urban formIn this paper, we analyze the relationship between the characteristics of transportation energy consumption and urban form elements that were actively argued along with Environmentally Sound and Sustainable Development (ESSD). This paper can be divided into two parts: an examination of the theories and a practical analysis of domestic, small-, and medium-sized cities. Firstly, in the examination of theories, we surveyed the arguments about the sustainable urban form. Secondly, we made some hypotheses about the relationships between transportation energy consumption, city size, density, and center distribution pattern. Thirdly, we tested those hypotheses and examined the suitability of policies for each alternative for small- and medium-sized cities in Korea. The main themes in this paper are as follows. Firstly, how does the city size, density, etc. affect the transportation energy consumption? Secondly, in an overcrowded Korean situation, which alternative is the more suitable sustainable urban form from the point of transportation energy consumption, i.e., concentration or decentralized concentration? Thirdly, we examined the argument that a densely centralized development can reduce the need for travel, increase the transit use, and decrease automobile use. From the results of the analysis, we found that as the population increases, transportation energy represented by yearly gasoline consumption per automobile and the average yearly energy consumption as a result of surface transportation per 1,000 persons tends to decrease. Further, if the degree of city's concentration represented by Gini coefficient is high, energy efficiency tends to decrease. Besides, the influential factors on the transportation energy consumption among the indicators of urban form could be road ratio and density. Whereas the road ratio is not related to the transportation energy consumption, road density is. From the analyzed results, we can deduce planning implications concerned with Korean cities. Firstly, Korean cities are already highly centralized so a decentralization policy should be carried out to increase transportation energy efficiency. In any case, in the case of high-density cities, multinuclei cities are better than mononuclear ones. Further, to increase the transportation energy efficiency, policies for high road densities through the construction of new roads in spite of narrow road widths are more effective than those for high road ratio-widening existing roads. ⓒ Springer-Verlag 2006.
2006	The evolution of Japan's aggressive legalismJapan's recent trade policy is sometimes characterised as 'aggressive legalism' in the sense that it aggressively utilises the multilateral trade rules embodied in the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organisation in dealing with disputes with its trade partners. This policy may appear to be a marked departure from Japan's past practice of favouring bilateral, non-legal settlement of trade disputes. Upon closer examination, however, while Japan has been moderately active in using the WTO dispute settlement process for resolving its trade disputes, it behaves more like a country that resorts to surgical strikes on selected targets (usually the United States) under a powerful cover of the European Community. Compared to Japan, Korea's attitude in the WTO is more aggressive. While the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) is not content with the status quo and is seeking to expand its aggressiveness in the WTO dispute settlement mechanism, it faces an uphill battle. One of the difficulties facing trade officials in Japan may be the lack of a national system for lodging WTO complaints, open to any citizens or firms, like Section 301 of the US Trade Act of 1974 or the European Trade Barriers Regulation. Nonetheless, in the historical context, Japan is far more aggressive than in the past in utilising the rules of the GATT/WTO to advance its national interests. It will never revert to the infamous practice of bilateralism and grey area measures. ⓒ 2006 The Authors Journal compilation ⓒ 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2006	Intellectual property rights in agriculture and the interests of Asian-Pacific economiesThis paper describes recent and ongoing processes of technological change in agriculture, which has become a highly R&D-intensive sector in many countries of the Asia-Pacific region. It also considers the role of various forms of intellectual property rights (IPRs) in promoting such technological changes and in affecting their diffusion through the region. A central part of the discussion is a review of how these various IPRs operate and are protected in major economies of the region. There is an assessment of the economic interests of key countries, including the United States, Canada, Australia, China, Japan and the Republic of Korea, in global and regional policy evolution in agricultural IPRs. These interests are a mix of comparative advantage in farming, which is quite distinctive among these countries, and the technological basis of production, which is more convergent. A review of available measures of innovation in the region suggests that all of these economies are active in developing new agricultural technologies, although there is considerable specialisation in the types of processes developed. Given this mix of divergence in comparative costs and convergence in technology interests, it is difficult to describe sharply the preferences these economies may have in continued globalisation of agricultural IPRs. However, the analysis points to some areas in which countries may continue to specialise - thereby retaining the ability to remain in specific areas of farming - and other fields in which international collaboration may be sensible. ⓒ 2006 The Authors Journal compilation ⓒ 2006 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2006	The impact of family ownership and capital structures on productivity performance of Korean manufacturing firms: Corporate governance and the "chaebol problem"This paper examines the relationship between corporate governance and productivity performance, focusing on family ownership and capital structure. Paying particular attention to chaebols, or large business groups with entrenched family control, diversified business structure, and heavy debt-dependence, we find the positive relationship between family ownership concentration and productivity performance to be much stronger in chaebol firms than in non-chaebol firms. Moreover, high debt reliance (or low equity-asset ratio) is shown to be negatively related to productivity performance in non-chaebol firms but positively in chaebol firms. J. Japanese Int. Economies 20 (2) (2006) 209-233. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	Generational accounting in KoreaThis paper reassesses the long-term fiscal position of Korea using generational accounting, modified to reflect special features of the Korean fiscal situation, notably prospective changes in public pension benefits due to the pension system's maturation and increasing expenditure on social welfare programs consistent with convergence to levels in other OECD countries. Our findings suggest that unless policy toward existing generations is substantially altered, future generations will face a heavy fiscal burden. For reasonable growth and interest rate assumptions, the difference between 2000 newborns and those born after 2000 ranges from 60 to 180%. We also find that a substantial part of the fiscal burden on future generations is explained by the long-run budgetary imbalances of public pensions and Medical Insurance. J. Japanese Int. Economies 20 (2) (2006) 234-268. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2006	Productivity growth in Korea: Efficiency improvement or technical progress?This paper shows that the productivity gains in Korean manufacturing are mostly from efficiency improvement rather than from technical progress. These findings are contrary to those of previous sectoral studies of Korean and Taiwanese manufacturing, but are consistent with those of cross-country studies. Regression results show that both domestic and foreign R&D played an important role in increasing efficiency and technical progress in Korean manufacturing. However, domestic R&D has more effect on technical progress, while foreign R&D has played a relatively stronger role in efficiency improvement. ⓒ 2006 Taylor & Francis.
2006	Dominance and change in the global computer industry: Military, bureaucratic, and network state developmentalismsThis article examines the conditions under which firms in different economies were able to emerge as significant actors in the global computer industry during different time periods. To achieve this, the article divides into three periods the history of the industry in terms of the three major policy regimes that have supported the dominant firms and regions. It argues that these policy regimes can be thought of as state developmentalisms that take significantly different forms across the history of the industry. U.S. firms' dominance over their European counterparts in the 1950s and 1960s was underpinned by a system of "military developmentalism" where military agencies funded research, provided a market and developed infrastructure, but also demanded high quality products. The "Asian Tigers" - Taiwan, Singapore, Hong Kong, and South Korea - in the 1970s and 1980s were able to eclipse their Latin American and Indian rivals due in large part to the significant advantages offered by a highly effective system of "bureaucratic developmentalism," where bureaucratic elites in key state agencies and leading business groups negotiated supports for export performance. The 1990s saw the emergence of a system of "network developmentalism" where countries such as Ireland and Israel were able to emerge as new nodes in the computer industry by careful economic and political negotiation of relations to the United States, reestablished at the center of the industry, and by more decentralized forms of provision of state support for high-tech development. Finally, the conditions under which new regimes can emerge are a consequence of the unanticipated global consequences of previous regimes. While state developmentalisms have been shaped by existing global regimes, they have promoted further and different rounds of industry globalization.
2006	Prospect for China-Korea economic relationsThis paper briefly reviews the economic performance of China's economic reform starting in 1978, and which it presents personal views on the experiences of Korea's economic development and lessons for China's economic reform. The paper reviews the China-Korea economic relationship, and explores both the opportunities of China's economic development for Korea and the prospects for Bilateral Economic cooperation. It is estimated that the Chinese economy will maintain dynamic growth for the coming decade. The 2008 Olympic Games and the 2010 World Expo in China will provide further impetuses for Chinese economic development. China's huge market and its rapid economic growth can help the further recovery and development of the Korean economy. At the same time, the further development of the Chinese economy can benefit from financial, technical and managerial support from Korea. The complementarities between the industrial structures of China and Korea will surely push their future economic cooperation into a broader and deeper stage. Bilateral trade will enhance the competitiveness of both nations in the global market and help them achieve mutual prosperity and development. (Edited by Xinyu Fan) ⓒ Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences 2006.
2006	Labour and globalization: Locating the Northeast Asian newly industrializing countriesGlobalization is closely associated with the turn towards neo-liberal economic strategies. One defining feature of neo-liberalism is labour market liberalization. The experiences of labour market reform in the Northeast Asian Newly Industrializing Countries of South Korea (hereafter Korea) and Taiwan exhibit differences from both the neo-liberal and alternative capitalist patterns commonly identified in the political economy literature. Using a comparative framework based on the criteria of labour market reform, political configurations, corporatist institutions, and the feedback effects of labour market policies, this article will reveal and explain the distinctiveness of the Northeast Asian pattern. Variations between Korea and Taiwan will also be explained using this framework. The findings here will contribute to the debate about how local institutions and politics interact with globalizing forces to produce divergent outcomes.
2006	Regional development and rural-based export processing zones in developing countriesMany empirical, descriptive and theoretical studies have revealed various aspects of export processing zones (EPZs), but little attention has been given to the issue of the location of EPZs. In this paper, we provide a new theoretical approach to it: a general equilibrium model that consists of two regions and makes possible a comparison between the economic effects of an expansion of an EPZ in the rural region and that of multinational corporations (MNCs) in the urban region. The result is interesting: expanding the EPZ in the rural region may be a less desirable policy for a developing country than expanding the MNC sector in the urban region. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	Specialization in a dynamic trade model: An overlapping generations caseWe explore a small open economy with overlapping generations to show that demographic structure is an important factor for the determination of a production pattern in the dynamic trade theory. In the representative agent model, Baxter (1992) shows that even if there are two commodities and two production factors, there is a Ricardian implication that opening up to trade leads to perfect specialization in a small open economy. In contrast, using the overlapping generations model, we find that the heterogeneity of the economic agents generally makes imperfect specialization occur. We also find that whether the stability condition holds or not is crucial for the determination of the long-run production pattern. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	Emigrants' remittances and Dutch disease in cape verdeEmigrants' remittances have increased rapidly over the past two decades. While earlier studies have focused on their microeconomic effect on incomes and poverty in recipient countries, the present study concentrates on the macroeconomic impact of remittances on the real exchange rate in Cape Verde. A main conclusion is that remittances give rise to a sort of Dutch Disease effect and thereby have an adverse effect on the competitiveness of the tradable sector. The magnitude of this effect in Cape Verde is not that large, however. The changing orientation of official aid to more growth-oriented aid, combined with a more export-oriented domestic policy, has contributed to limiting the adverse impact of emigrants' remittances on the competitiveness of the Cape Verdean economy. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	How to achieve the goal of broadband for allThe purpose of this paper is twofold. First, the paper aims to explain national experiences in penetration of broadband, through an analysis of drivers and barriers. Second, the paper will on this background assess the role of government intervention in order to achieve universal access to broadband services. The paper focuses on identification and analysis of drivers and barriers towards the development of broadband for all. The purpose is to provide input for an assessment of various policy measures aiming at stimulation of the growth in penetration of broadband services. The analysis builds on experiences with broadband development in four countries, which varies from market leaders (Canada, Denmark and South Korea) to average penetration regarding broadband services (Germany). The paper is based on ongoing work in WP3 of the BREAD project (Broadband in Europe for all: a multi disciplinary approach), which collects information on ongoing regional and national initiatives in Europe and around the world. ⓒ 2006 Physica-Verlag Heidelberg.
2006	Asymmetric adjustment towards long-run PPP: Some new evidence for Asian economiesThis paper investigates relative purchasing power parity for a sample of nine Asian economies during the post-Bretton Woods floating exchange rate era. While most existing studies of purchasing power parity employ linear tests of non-stationarity or non-cointegration, we employ a new cointegration test, recently advocated by Enders & Siklos and Enders & Dibooglu, that tests for an asymmetric adjustment towards parity with respect to positive and negative real exchange rate deviations from parity. In most cases, we find that long-run purchasing power parity is most likely to hold with respect to positive deviations only. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	The determinants of economic growth of transition economies: Economic reform versus initial conditionsThis study analyzes factors for economic recovery of transition economies in Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States for the period of the 1990s. Covariance structure analysis is employed to estimate the structural equation system, and exploratory factor analysis is conducted to measure initial conditions and economic policy as latent variables. The result of analysis shows that the effect of initial conditions is negative and the impact of economic reform on growth is positive. However, the negative effect of initial conditions had overridden the positive impact of economic policy as of 2000. The reason that transition economies could not recover their pre-transition GDP level (even after ten years of transition history) seems to stem from the negative influence of initial conditions on growth rather than the slow speed of economic reform. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	Population age structure and real exchange rates in the oecdMacroeconomic theory predicts that variations in population cohort sizes will lead to demographically induced real exchange rate movements. While such effects have previously been established for individual countries, this paper exploits cross-sectional time series data to test the prediction for a larger number of economies. A reduced form model with population age shares as regressors is estimated using a panel of 25 OECD countries between 1971 and 2002. The results confirm that demographic structure has significant explanatory power for the real exchange rate and the estimated relationship supports age structure effects in accordance with the life cycle hypothesis. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	Social security expenditure and GDP in OECD countries: A cointegrated panel analysisUsing panel data unit root tests and panel cointegration tests, as well as estimation techniques appropriate for heterogeneous panels such as the full modified OLS, this paper re-examines the long-run co-movement and the causal relationship between GDP and social security expenditure in a bivariate model, employing data on 25 OECD countries from 1980 to 2001. Our cointegration test results show strong evidence in favour of the existence of a long-run equilibrium cointegrating relationship between GDP and social security expenditure after allowing for a heterogeneous country effect. Regarding the panel-based error correction model, we find that GDP and social security expenditure lack short-run causality, but reveal the existence of long-run bidirectional causality. This shows that, in the long run, economic growth must be based on a social welfare policy that should be carried out, and economic growth can facilitate contiguous development in a social welfare policy. Lastly, we also provide evidence to support that social security expenditure can affect growth through the savings and human capital accumulation in OECD countries. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	Measuring the size of the hidden economy in Trinidad &amp; Tobago, 1973?1999In this paper, an attempt is made to measure the hidden economy of Trinidad & Tobago over the period 1973?1999, within the Structural Cointegrating VAR (SCVAR) framework. Using a Tanzi-type currency demand approach as a starting point, a multiple equation SCVAR model is estimated that contains two long-run relationships linking the demand for currency with other variables. The model is evaluated on the basis of its persistence profiles, its impulse responses and other statistical criteria. It is solved using a Gauss?Siedel algorithm and is used to establish that the size of the hidden economy rose from a low of about 14% of measured GDP in the early 1970s to a high of 36% in 1981, and is currently about 20% of measured GDP. Hidden economic activity is also found to be highly positively correlated with activity in the regular economy. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2006	An empirical test of purchasing power parity in selected developing countries: a panel data approachThis paper examines the empirical validity of Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) for certain large developing economies by using a panel unit root methodology. The test results show that a long run real exchange rate depreciation trend exists in certain developing countries. Without considering this depreciation trend, it is hard to verify the stationarity and to explain the existence of the extremely long half-lives of the real exchange rates. When a linear time trend is included in the tests, the results tend to support the stationarity of the underlying real exchange rate processes, and the half-lives are significantly shorter and their range can be explained by transitory disturbances. ⓒ 2006, Korea International Economic Association.
2005	How significant and effective are North Korea's "market reforms"?Speculation continues as to the real significance and effectiveness of the "market reforms" introduced by the government of North Korea in July 2002. Some commentators regard these as rather minor, while others suggest that they represent the first stage of a significant move towards a much more open and decentralized system. In this paper, the details of the reforms are discussed, and it is argued that their significance can only be judged in terms of the underlying dynamics of the North Korean regime. Using constructs from regime theory and regime dynamics, the current system is defined, and the stability of its elements is evaluated. It is concluded that the reforms are necessary for regime stability, but do not constitute a fundamental challenge to the existing system. ⓒ 2005 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2005	Globalization and local political economy: The multi-scalar approachBased on a multi-scalar view on globalization, this paper suggests that the nationstate's policy liberalization is not simply imposed from above by global forces, but constituted from below by national and sub-national forces. In particular, this paper explores how inter-scalar interactions between national and local forces can give impacts on the ways in which the nation state liberalizes its regulations on the transnational flows of capital and investment. With case studies of "big deal" and the Jeju international free city project in Korea, it elaborates on how the state's liberalization and globalization projects can be spatially and politically constructed under the influences of: (1) inter-scalar tensions between the national and the local, and (2) politics of "jumping-scale", which either local or national actors organize in order to mobilize the sources of power at different geographical scales. ⓒ 2005 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2005	Is institutionalization of the six-party talks possible?During 2003 and 2004, after having successfully hosted two six-party talks and a round of working-group level meetings on the North Korean nuclear crisis, China pushed to institutionalize the talks. Such an initiative coming from China was a shock to the world, since it has long maintained a passive, negative and defensive posture against multilateral cooperative security arrangements. This article declares that China's idea to utilize the six-party talks as a steppingstone toward a multilateral cooperative security arrangement is premature. It argues that the first priority is to address the failure of the 1994 Agreed Framework with North Korea - what was, then, believed to be the solution for the North Korean nuclear crisis. This article dissects the failure and identifies one critical factor for the viability of any future peaceful resolution - the economic sanctions that the US has placed against North Korea for the past half-century. The authors argues that if the issue of sanctions is not addressed, the current six-party talks will not be successful.
2005	Substituting and complementing models of economic development in East AsiaThis paper assesses the relative merits and demerits of different East Asian models by placing them in a historical perspective. It re-interprets Gerschenkron's model of late industrialization, and extends it to compare East Asian economies in view of substituting and complementing models. It then explains divergent performances among East Asian economies from the late 1990s by examining the different challenges they faced as their economies became mature and more fully open to forces of globalization. In conclusion, the paper discusses the applicability of the East Asian models for today's developing countries. ⓒ 2005 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2005	Human resource management, corporate governance structure and corporate performance in Korea: A comparative analysis of Japan, US and KoreaThis paper investigates the influences of human resource management (HRM) and corporate governance structure on the corporate performance in Korean firms. Prior to the Asian economic crisis, large Korean firms mostly followed the Japanese style HRM paradigm where the practice of lifetime employment is guaranteed. However, in the aftermath of the crisis, they have pursued structural downsizing and changed their paradigm more towards the US HRM paradigm where inter-firm mobility becomes prominent in the flexible labor market. The empirical evidence introduced in this paper affirms the argument that the first step towards a HRM paradigm shift in Korea should be the establishment of an efficient corporate governance structure. This implies that a simple switch from the Japanese HRM paradigm to the US model may not improve corporate performance unless the change is accompanied by a solution to the problems posed by the minority controlling structure of Korean companies. The implications of this study for guiding policy in developing countries having labor market rigidities and underdeveloped corporate governance is clear. Corporate governance systems may provide an appropriate starting point for the development of any policies aimed at building an efficient human resource management system and a flexible labor market. ⓒ 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2005	Is there a yen optimum currency area? Evidence from 18 Asian and Pacific economiesThis paper examines the macroeconomic costs and benefits of adopting a common currency (the yen) for 18 Asian and Pacific countries. Economic theory suggests that the main benefit is enhanced price stability, while the main cost is higher business-cycle volatility if the adopting country's output is not sufficiently correlated with that of Japan. Using data from 1960-2001, the paper finds that the estimated cost and benefit measures exhibit substantial variability across the countries and are often positively correlated: countries (such as Bangladesh or Nepal) that have a lot to gain from adopting the yen, also have a lot to lose from it; while other economies (such as Singapore, Thailand, or Taiwan) that have little to lose by adopting the yen, have also little to gain by it. The empirical results can be also used to compare net benefits for individual countries, showing, for example, that Korea is a more promising candidate for adopting the yen than Pakistan or Malaysia. ⓒ 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2005	People's Republic of China and its neighbours: Evidence on regional trade and investment effectsThe very rapid economic growth of the People's Republic of China (PRC), its dramatic success in world export markets and its heavy receipts of foreign direct investment (FDI) have generated much thought and debate in policy and business circles in different parts of the world. This paper surveys evidence from research by ADB Institute staff and Visiting Fellows conducted over the last two years that sheds light on these issues. The paper examines differences in trade structure between the PRC and its trading partners, finding that the PRC's current structure is closest to that of Korea and Taipei, China in 1990. It also considers changes in market share and finds that the PRC exports are eroding the market share of its regional neighbours in the USA and Japan, particularly in products in which trading partners are most specialised. There is no evidence of FDI diversion from elsewhere in the region to PRC. The trade diversion effects in the US and Japan are offset however by strong trade creation as the rapid growth in PRC leads to a substantial rise in its imports. The paper surveys the projections of models that demonstrate the gains in greater trade and income for the region from closer trade links with the PRC. The broad conclusion that emerges is that whilst there may be risks to individual sectors in all countries concerned, the pattern of regional trade and investment that is emerging is mutually beneficial, provided enterprises and governments representing the PRC's regional partners respond effectively to the adjustments required. ⓒ 2005 Asia Pacific School of Economics and Government, The Australian National University and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2005	Income distribution in East Asian developing countries: Recent trendsThis paper updates estimates of the trends in income distribution in the eight countries of the developing East and Southeast Asian region. In the last update by Krongkaew (1994), inequality was found to be increasing in the newly industrialising economies of Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, while in the ASEAN-4 (with the exception of Thailand) it was declining. Since then, the region has undergone the East Asian financial crisis of 1997-98. Recent data indicate that income distribution in Hong Kong and Taiwan continues to improve. Income inequality in South Korea declined until 1993 but began to increase slowly until the crisis sharply widened the disparity. The evidence for Singapore is mixed, with one set of estimates showing a dip in inequality while another indicates a widening of income disparity during the crisis. The crisis had the immediate impact of improving income distribution in all the ASEAN-4 countries, mainly because of reductions in the income shares of the top income groups. Later data show that inequality has since risen in all of them, except for Malaysia (for which no recent data are available). ⓒ 2005 Asia Pacific School of Economics and Government, The Australian National University and Blackwell Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.
2005	Liberalizing employment of foreign workers in Korea: Public perception and assessmentThe Korean government recently and expediently proposed legislative change to greatly liberalize the employment of foreign workers, and the Korean congress also legislated the government proposal. As in the case of other law-making processes, civil perception and assessment of the potential social cost and benefit of such a change were important factors to be considered by administrators and politicians in deciding whether to adopt the new legislation on foreign workers. In order to assess the socially perceived cost and benefit of adopting legislation to liberalize the employment of foreign workers, this study employs the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM), a method to assess the monetary value of non-market commodities and hence here to measure the value of the social effects of the liberalization. This assessment will provide insight into the development of policy on the liberalization of employment of foreign workers and help evaluate whether public support or resistance held sway over the Korean government's attitude in the law-making process on foreign labor. The empirical analysis shows that Korean citizens perceived that the introduction of foreign workers would have positive effects such as an improvement in the nation's image and a reduction in the psychological rejection of foreign workers, yet, they also perceived it would have negative effects such as an increase in demand for public order and administration to manage foreign workers and address associated social issues. Social costs were calculated as a monthly average of 9299 KW (Korean won) per household, but social benefits were calculated as 11,276 KW. If these values are applied to the nation's total number of households, the net social benefit resulting from the introduction of foreign workers is estimated at approximately 340 billion KW annually. Therefore, if foreign labor policy is appropriately improved, Korean citizen tend to presume that liberalizing the employment of foreign workers would generate net social benefits. ⓒ 2005 Society for Policy Modelling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Assessing pre-crisis fundamentals in selected asian stock marketsIn the folklore of emerging markets, there is a popular belief that bubbles are inevitable. In this paper, our objective is to estimate a state-space model for rational bubbles in selected Asian economies with the aid of the Kalman Filter. For each economy, we derive a possible picture of the bubble formation process that is implied by the state-space formulation. The estimation is based on the rational valuation formula for stock prices. Our results provide a possible way of defining the presence of rational bubbles in the stock markets of Taiwan, Singapore, Korea, and Malaysia. ⓒ 2005 World Scientific Publishing Company.
2005	Sources of variations between the inflation rates of Korea, Thailand and Indonesia during the post-1997 crisisDespite the large number of studies done on the recent East Asian crisis, hardly any of them has however simultaneously evaluated the roots of the inflationary pressures and unearthed the sources of sharp variations between the inflation rates of the various crisis-affected economies. To help fill in this gap, our paper examines and contrasts the sources of inflation in Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea during the period of 1985-2001. A number of potential sources of inflation will be considered in the study. But this study pays a particular attention to the possible roles of the monetary aggregates and the exchange rate uncertainties in encapsulating the rise in the inflationary pressures and the variations between the inflation rates experienced by these economies during the 1997 crisis. ⓒ 2005 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	The big push, industrialization and international trade: The role of exportsThis paper analyzes the "late" industrializations of South Korea and Taiwan, and how they can be produced by an export promotion policy. The paper adopts an open economy version of the well-known big push model. Thus, it recovers neoclassical accounts of industrialization through exports, complementing previous literature, which tends to show the existence of the big push, but is scarce on trade mechanisms to produce it. The model fits well with some stylized facts of the industrializations in East and Southeast Asia. I also apply it to a comparison of the education policies of East Asia and Latin America. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2005	Exports, economic growth and causality in KoreaUsing recent developments in econometric techniques, this article re-examines the export-led growth (ELG) hypothesis for Korea over 1963-2001. The Granger-causality tests was based on two testing approaches: vector error correction modelling (VECM) approach outlined in Toda and Philips; and the augmented levels VAR modelling with integrated and cointegrated processes (of arbitrary orders) separately introduced by Toda and Yamamoto (1995) and Dolado and Lutkepohl (1996). Empirical evidence from causality tests based on the two alternative approaches indicates that the causal link between real exports and real GDP growth is bi-directional. Additional determinants of growth are also found to be significant. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis.
2005	Human capital and productivity for Korea's sustained economic growthThis paper assesses Korea's growth experience and its prospects based on methods of 'level accounting' and 'growth accounting'. The level accounting method shows that the gap of output per worker between Korea and the US has rapidly decreased over the past three decades. However, this swift 'catch-up' process is attributed to physical and human capital accumulation for the most part, rather than to the total factor productivity  growth. Growth accounting shows that the productivity growth of the Korean economy, particularly the manufacturing industry, has accelerated in recent years. But, poor productivity performance in the service industries, including finance, insurance, and real estate, construction, and wholesale and retail trade sectors, hampers overall productivity growth. For sustained productivity growth, Korea needs to stimulate technological investment, and upgrade the quality of human capital. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Economic reform after the financial crisis: A critical assessment of institutional transition and transition costs in South KoreaThis paper assesses the structural reform after the financial crisis in Korea by investigating its benefits and costs to the economy. It argues that Korea's rapid economic recovery in 1999-2000 was a Keynesian recovery, not a reform-led one. It also argues that, despite the fact that there has been a significant advancement in formal changes in institutions, economic costs arising from attempting a radical institutional transition have been unduly large. We attribute this disappointing performance mainly to the fact that the radical reform has created a vacuum in the risk-taking function in the economy and therefore resulted in a continued credit crunch in the corporate sector. The Korean case suggests the importance of diversity and incrementalism in designing institutional transition, rather than attempting to implement 'global standard' policies and institutions. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	Impact measurement for public investment evaluation. An application to KoreaDuring the economic development process public investment has played very important roles in regional development and planning as well as in national development. Hence, it is very important to measure the socio-economic impact of core public investment on national and regional economies. The impact measurement alternatives for the large-scale public investment focusing on urban and regional areas are developed. Besides the traditional effect of measurement methods, this paper suggests another approach including impact zone measurement index (IZMI) concept, estimation concepts, procedures applying and revising modern non-parametric estimations. IZMI can be expressed using DI (distance factor), Z (related impact variables such as industrial complex, etc.), CAR (car possession number per person) and DOR (ratio between the distance from the other expressway and a specified expressway). The examples for this estimation are implemented using Korean data and West Sea (Seohae) Expressway case. This is the case for ex-post policy program evaluation. ⓒ 2005 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	The performance of the Markov-switching model on business cycle identification revisitedThis study examines the performance of Markov-switching model on business cycle by applying the model to various economies. Specifically, three comparison groups are used: (1) the USA and Japan serving as the representatives for the industrialized economies (or IEs hereafter); (2) Taiwan and South Korea serving as the representatives for newly industrialized economics (or NIEs hereafter); and (3) Malaysia and Indonesia serving as the representatives for the developing economies (or DEs hereafter). The empirical results are consistent with the following notions. First, the Markov-switching model serves well to depict the business cycles for IEs and DEs. Nevertheless, the model is ineffective for the two NIEs, which underwent structural economic shifts to slower growth during our sample period of 1970-1998. Second, the two-period Markov-switching by dividing the sample periods into two sub-periods thus more effectively measures the two NIEs' business cycles. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	Trade reform and manufacturing pricing behavior in four archetype Asia-Pacific economiesGeneral equilibrium models are constructed of four Asia-Pacific economies that differ according to their levels of development, the comparative sizes of their manufacturing sectors and their patterns of comparative advantage and trade protection. The countries chosen are Australia, an industrialized importer of manufactures; Japan, an industrialized exporter; the Philippines, a developing importer; and the Republic of Korea, a developing exporter. Manufacturing industries are characterized as comprising identical oligopolistic firms producing homogeneous goods that are differentiated from competing imports. Oligopoly behavior not-withstanding, trade reforms are found to yield conventional results in that net economic gains are small while implicit transfers are substantial. More competitive (non-collusive) pricing by oligopolistic firms, which might be achieved through reform of competition law and trade practices surveillance, yields larger net gains and these gains tend to accrue to all domestic primary factors. Such reforms also yield substantial interaction between oligopoly behavior and economic and industrial structure.
2005	American economic policy in the Philippines, 1902-1940: Exploring a dark age in colonial statisticsThis paper presents a detailed estimate of GDP for the Philippines from 1902 to 1940, and analyses factors accounting for changes in growth rates during that era. A crash program in agricultural modernization produced a doubling of rice and corn yields between 1910 and the late 1920s. As a result, the Philippine GDP growth rate in the first two decades outstripped all other nations in East and Southeast Asia. However fiscal constraints appeared by the late 1920s, causing this and other infrastructure projects to be curtailed. An overvalued peso emerged after 1930 and this, alongside a slowdown in productivity caused the rate of Philippine GDP growth to fall behind that of neighboring countries including Japan, Korea and Taiwan. These developments in the later years of the colonial period seriously compromised the transition to economic independence in 1946. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Currency substitution in Asian countriesThe objective of this study is to investigate the importance of the U.S. dollar to six Asian economies, as a substitute or complement to domestic monetary assets. Towards this goal, the Morishima elasticity of substitution is estimated between domestic currency, the U.S. dollar and time and savings deposits at commercial banks in Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand over the period 1977 to 1996. We observe that the domestic currency and the U.S. dollar are Morishima substitutes in every country, and the demand for the U.S. dollar relative to the domestic currency appears to respond more to a change in the opportunity cost of holding domestic money (exchange rate depreciation) than the opportunity cost of holding the U.S. dollar (the domestic interest rate). A higher degree of currency substitution is found in Japan, Korea, and Singapore than the rest of the countries. Moreover, there is an indication of an increasing degree of currency substitution over time in every country except for Malaysia. Currency substitution creates a channel for the transmission of exogenous monetary disturbances from abroad. The vulnerability of money demand in the face of foreign shocks increases pressure on the monetary authorities to accommodate these shocks under a pegged exchange rate system. The cost of this accommodation proved to be unsustainable during the Asian crisis as foreign reserves were drawn down. Hence, there is the need to build up an adequate foreign reserves position to accommodate the degree of currency substitution and dollarization. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Transforming the developmental welfare state in East AsiaThis article attempts to explain changes and continuity in the developmental welfare states in Korea and Taiwan within the East Asian context. It first elaborates two strands of welfare developmentalism (selective vs. inclusive), and establishes that the welfare state in both countries fell into the selective category of developmental welfare states before the Asian economic crisis of 1997. The key principles of the selective strand of welfare developmentalism are productivism, selective social investment and authoritarianism; inclusive welfare development is based on productivism, universal social investment and democratic governance. The article then argues that the policy reform toward an inclusive welfare state in Korea and Taiwan was triggered by the need for structural reform in the economy. The need for economic reform, together with democratization, created institutional space in policy-making for advocacy coalitions, which made successful advances towards greater social rights. Finally, the article argues that the experiences of Korea and Taiwan counter the neo-liberal assertion that the role of social policy in economic development is minor, and emphasizes that the idea of an inclusive developmental welfare state should be explored in the wider context of economic and social development. ⓒ Institute of Social Studies 2005.
2005	Economies of scale, technological progress, and the sources of economic growth: Case of Korea, 1969-2000Empirical investigations are undertaken by estimating the system of an aggregate translog cost and cost-share equations for the Korean economy, using annual data for the period 1969-2000. We found inelastic demand for factor inputs, low substitution between labor and capital, and a complementary relationship between structure capital and equipment capital. The Korean economy exhibited increasing returns to scale and labor saving and capital using embodied technological progress. Capital accumulation and TFP growth are the proximate source of output growth. TFP growth includes the estimated embodied capital-using technological change. The technological change is as much as one and half times TFP growth between 1969 and 2000. Hence, investment is the most important engine of growth. ⓒ 2005 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Money-income causality revisited in EGARCH: Spillovers of monetary policy to Asia from the USThis paper investigates how money-income causality in the Asia is influenced by US interest rates and the money supply and which policy variable has a stronger impact on Asia. Six Asian economies are examined (Pakistan, India, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines and Korea) using an EGARCH model over the period 1970:Ql-2002:Q4. The results indicate that spillover effects from US interest rates and the money supply unambiguously influence money-income causality for each of the economies examined. This suggests that Asian monetary authorities should monitor US monetary policies carefully and decide upon the domestic money supply by reference to an EGARCH model. Alternatively, the domestic money supply may be determined by a rule based on the US money supply. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All right reserved.
2005	How did Korean households cope with negative shocks from the financial crisis?This paper employs a panel of household data from Korea to examine how households coped with the shortfall in consumption during 1994-1998, which encompasses the financial crisis of 1997. We adopt the econometric framework from Glewwe and Hall [Glewwe, P., & Hall, G. (1998). Are some groups more vulnerable to macroeconomic shocks than others? Hypothesis tests based on panel data from Peru.f Journal of Development Economics, 56, 181-206] and estimate a household consumption growth equation. We find that larger households tend to be protected to a greater extent from shortfall in consumption, and that the vulnerability of female-headed households is not greater than that of male-headed households. Among the coping strategies, private transfers act both as an ex-ante risk-managing device and an ex-post coping mechanism. Urban households and those headed by the self-employed experienced a larger shortfall in consumption during the crisis. While credit was used to smooth consumption of children's education, medical and childcare services during the pre-crisis years, it was not utilized as a coping strategy during the 1997 crisis, possibly due to the credit crunch caused by stringent monetary policies. Instead, households cut back consumption of luxurious and durable goods to preserve food consumption and spending on children's education. We do not find evidence of households liquidating their assets to cushion the shortfall in consumption, during the 1997 crisis. It is possible that they did not liquidate their assets because land and stock prices declined significantly. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All right reserved.
2005	Education and natural resources in economic development: Thailand compared with Japan and KoreaIn this study, we compare among Thailand, Japan and Korea in terms of their educational and economic developments. We hypothesize that Thailand's slower economic progress has been due to its slower educational development induced by abundant land resource. Our regression analysis using pooled time-series data of these countries confirms the negative effect of land endowment on educational investment. Land endowment also has a negative effect on agricultural intensification and industrialization whereas the educational stock has a positive effect. These imply that Thailand failed to effectively mobilize resource rent in the vent-for-surplus development stage for preparing conditions of modern development. ⓒ 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Regional monetary integration in the presence of two large countries: What modality makes sense for East Asia?This paper analyzes the modalities of East Asian monetary integration by taking note of the relevance of two large economies, one outside the region (the United States) and one inside (Japan), for monetary policy making. Within the framework of a three-country model, it derives the social welfare of two regional economies and uses numerical calibration to show how it crucially depends on the specific modality of monetary integration. By using parameters obtained from the actual macroeconomic data for 1981-1996, we find that the smaller regional economy (Korea) always benefits from monetary integration, while the large regional economy (Japan) benefits from monetary integration only when it is asymmetric (such as a peg to a common basket or yenization), so that it can continue to enjoy some monetary autonomy. Symmetric integration, while not a viable option for East Asia in the short run, may become feasible in the long run if economic integration deepens sufficiently to produce convergence in economic structure and synchronization of business cycles. ⓒ 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2005	The new Korean stateThe Korean state has pursued neoliberal reform and abandoned the old developmental state model tells us little about the effects of globalisation on the viability of national dirigiste economic strategies. In order to understand properly both the contemporary Korean political economy and assess the full significance of the Korean experience for our understanding of the evolution of the global political economy, it is critical that we examine why Korea moved away from a state-led development model and towards a neoliberal model in the 1980s and 1990s. If we understand liberalisation as an act of high folly, with little economic justification, inspired by changes in the global and domestic ideational environment, this will obviously influence our understanding of both contemporary restructuring processes in Korea itself and the broader impact of globalisation on national economic strategies. On the other hand, if we understand reform as being initiated as a logical attempt to secure Korea's position as a site of accumulation within a rapidly changing global economy, then we will come to view these processes themselves and their broader significance very differently. It is our contention that the process of economic liberalisation in Korea has been driven principally by a rational response to structural changes in the global economy. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	A legitimate paradox: Neo-liberal reform and the return of the State in KoreaThis article examines the neo-liberal reforms that the Kim government implemented in post-crisis Korea. It argues that by embracing the reforms, the state, paradoxically, re-legitimised itself in the national political economy. The process of enacting the reforms completed the power shift from a collusive state-chaebol alliance towards a new alliance based on a more populist social contract - but one that nonetheless generally conformed to the tenets of neo-liberalism. Kim and his closest associates identified the malpractices of the chaebols as the main cause of the crisis, so reforming the chaebols would be the key to economic recovery. Combining populism and neo-liberalism, they drew on support from both domestic and international sources to rein in, rather than nurture, the chaebols. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Ltd.
2005	Technological change and wage premium in a small open economy: The case of KoreaThe aim of this study is to analyse the relationship between technological change and the educational wage premium in Korea. The main findings are as follows. First, the changes in educational wage premium were mostly affected by shifts in the supply of college graduates from 1983 to 1993 while the changes were affected more by the shifts in labour demand from 1993 to 2000. Second, the educational wage premium is greater in the industries with rapid technological change than in the industries with slower technological change. Third, the educational wage premium associated with the technological change is mostly explained by the returns to worker's unobserved heterogeneities, which is correlated with education, rather than the returns to education per se. Finally, there are some evidences that skill biased technologies are developed as the number of skilled workers are increasing. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	Labour market institutions and economic performance in the NetherlandsThe central question of this article is whether or not effectiveness and efficiency are improved by the stronger reliance on markets given Dutch labour market institutions and their resulting corporatist wage formation. In answering this question, besides the influence on the production costs (neoclassical approach), we explicitly deal with and quantify the ‘hidden’ transaction costs (institutional economics approach) of more decentralized labour relations, flexibilization of the labour market, and working conditions ‘a la carte’. The results presented cast doubt on both the efficiency and the effectiveness of recently introduced tailor-made solutions in the Dutch economy. ⓒ 2005, Korea International Economic Association.
2005	Are business cycles independent in the G7?In this paper we examine the relationships between business cycles in the G7 countries. We focus on whether recessionary periods in one country are independent of the timing of recessions in other countries in the G7, using three different methods for dating recessions. We find that the evidence is mixed on whether phases of the business cycle in North America and in European countries are independent, or whether there is a common phase structure in the business cycle across all the G7 economies. NBER dates suggest that business cycles are synchronised, while other methods for generating business cycle chronologies are more consistent with regional, rather than international cycles. We also find mixed evidence on whether the UK is synchronised with European countries, while Japan quite clearly has the cycle that is most independent of other G7 countries. ⓒ 2005, Korea International Economic Association.
2005	On discretion versus commitment and the role of the direct exchange rate channel in a forward-looking open economy modelThis paper compares optimal monetary policy under discretion and commitment in an economy where the direct exchange rate channel is operative. The stabilization bias under discretion is shown to be weaker in an open economy relative to a closed economy. In an open economy, a ‘less conservative central banker’, one that attaches a smaller weight to the variance of inflation in the loss function, can be appointed to replicate the behaviour of real output that eventuates under commitment. Evaluating the social loss function under discretion and commitment, we find that the existence of a direct exchange rate channel in the Phillips Curve mitigates the pronounced differences between the two strategies in case of high persistence in the stochastic shocks. ⓒ 2005, Korea International Economic Association.
2005	A cultural analysis of South Korea's economic prospectsThis study analyses cultural effects on economic development in South Korea. It introduces the concept of transaction costs as an operational intermediary between culture and economic development. Using this approach, it is found that culture affects economic development through its impacts on transaction costs in the static case. In the dynamic case, culture affects the economy through its impacts on the creative capacity of citizens. To assess the role of culture in future economic development, recent changes in Korean culture are examined. These include rising individualism and declining sense of community and trust; weaker appreciation of cooperation, compromise, and acceptance of dissent, and rising inclination towards confrontation; and the failing rule of law and rising perception of injustice. These all raise transaction costs. In addition, the future orientation is fading, as suggested by decreasing savings and investment rates, and by decline in the fertility rate. In view of these recent changes, Korean culture will have a negative effect on the future economy, compared to its positive influence in earlier decades from the 1960s. Culture is therefore not ceteris paribus. Even if all else remains the same, the prospects of the Korean economy will be tainted by the influence of culture. ⓒ 2005 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2005	Trilateral trade relations among China, Japan and South Korea: Challenges and prospects of regional economic integrationChina's emergence as a global and regional manufacturing center has significant implications for the Northeast Asian economies of Japan and South Korea. China's trade with Japan and South Korea has been rapidly growing in relative importance, largely facilitated by China's rise as a regional production base as well as changes in the trade structures between China and her neighbours. Indeed, in recent years, China has been the main driving force behind Northeast Asian trade interdependency. The strong economic linkages and complementarities among China, Japan and South Korea augur well for the further integration among the three Northeast Asian countries. Establishing a trilateral free trade arrangement (FTA) provide new opportunities to enhance the three countries' overall growth potential through trade and investment. However, such Northeast Asian regional integration is destined to be a long, drawn out process. The forging of a trilateral trading arrangement between China and her two neighbours remain a long term vision in view of the many outstanding issues and obstacles.
2005	Differences behind the appearances: Export growth, technological capabilities, and development in Mexico and South KoreaIn spite of the apparent parallel experiences followed by export growth in Mexico and South Korea, the authors argue that the two countries have followed radically contrasting economic and social development paths. The aim of this paper is to examine some of the strategic dimensions of the two paths in an attempt to demystify the aura of success created around the Mexican case.
2005	The political economy of institutional reform in KoreaIn the aftermath of the economic crisis of 1997-98 South Korea has undertaken a number of major institutional reforms. What are these reforms? Why were they undertaken? What is the outcome of the reforms? In answering these questions this paper examines the influence that the ideas of political leaders on political economy had in setting forth the reform agenda and the role that various interest groups have played in implementing the reform. It argues that there was a shift in the developmental paradigm in the early 1980s, that the new paradigm guided reforms in Korea during the 1980s and 1990s but with initial conditions and interest politics influencing the implementation and actual outcome of reform, and that the post-crisis reform was a culmination of the reform process that began in the early 1980s. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	Economic reforms in North Korea (1998-2004): Systemic restrictions, quantitative analysis, ideological backgroundNorth Korea started serious economic reforms in July 2002. The regime's credo is the coexistence of a state-directed economy and a market economy. The weight of the latter will be increased gradually, depending on success and political stability. The paper explores the costs and benefits of the reforms and suggests their support. In the short run, the price reforms resulted in purchasing power gains for everybody, although these gains are now offset by inflation. The reforms have been well prepared ideologically to secure a controlled process. The pragmatic replacement of socialism by nationalism as the core ideology as well as the transformation of the military into the new aristocracy at the expense of the party created new political options for the North Korean government. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	An industrial development strategy for Indonesia: Lessons from the South Korean experienceThe most important feature of South Korea's industrial development policy during the past several decades is its integrated approach to industrial development. Trade policy, human-resource development policy, and technology policy were well coordinated and complementary to industrial policy. An integrated policy approach to industrial development appears still to be relevant today for developing countries, including Indonesia. Based on this policy concept, the paper suggests national policy directions for Indonesia's industrial development through investment, trade, technology, human-resource and SME development policies. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	The major channels of international technology transfer to Indonesia: An assessmentLike other developing countries, Indonesia is a net importer of advanced technologies developed in the industrial countries. These technologies are crucial to generate and sustain the rapid economic growth necessary to raise the standards of living of the Indonesian people. In view of the economic importance function of imported technologies, it is important to identify the major sources and channels through which these technologies are transferred to Indonesia and to assess the extent to which the transfer has indeed contributed to the development of local technological capabilities. At its present relatively low level of industrial and technological development, Indonesia should focus its technology strategy on importing those technologies most relevant to its development needs, at the most favourable terms, and to assimilate, adapt and improve these imported technologies, very much like Japan and later the East Asian NIEs - particularly Korea and Taiwan - successfully did in earlier decades. Several studies on technology transfer in Indonesia's manufacturing sector have indicated that foreign direct investment, technical licensing agreements without equity involvement by the foreign licensor, capital goods imports, and participation in world trade through exports have been the major channels of international technology transfer to Indonesia. ⓒ 2005 Taylor & Francis Group Ltd.
2005	Two different export-oriented growth strategies: Accumulation and distribution in Turkey and South KoreaThe aim of the paper is to compare the relationship between distribution, growth, accumulation, and employment in Turkey and in South Korea. These countries represent two different cases of export-oriented growth. The results of the structural adjustment experiences of both countries are in striking contrast to orthodox theory; however, they also present counterexamples to each other in terms of policies of economic integration. The paper tests whether accumulation and employment are profit-led in these two countries by means of a post-Keynesian open economy model, which includes a demand-driven labor market and a reserve army effect in the Marxian sense. The model is estimated in a structural vector autoregression (SVAR) form in order to capture the complex simultaneous interaction between distribution, accumulation, growth, and employment within a systems approach. This model, and the method of estimation, are the two innovations of this paper in addressing the crucial policy issues related with structural adjustment problems in developing countries. The results show that decreasing the wage share does not stimulate accumulation, growth, and employment. Interestingly, the relation between wage share, investment, growth, and employment is similar in both Turkey and South Korea; however, the former experienced low and the latter high growth rates due to different export-oriented growth strategies. The explanation for this difference is found in the field of institutions, power structures, and state policies. ⓒ 2005 M.E. Sharpe, Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Real exchange rate volatility and the choice of regimes in emerging marketsTraditional models of the choice of exchange rate regimes ignore the destabilizing effects of sharp and unanticipated exchange rate movements. Recent research, however, has shown that these movements have real costs in emerging markets owing to the dollarization of liabilities. This paper evaluates the performance of an emerging market economy under a credibly fixed rate, a collapsing fixed rate, and a flexible-rate regime using a speculative attack model that takes into account the real effects of unanticipated movements in exchange rates. The model is applied to South Korea to determine the dominant exchange rate regime. ⓒ 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2005	Productivity growth in East Asian manufacturing: A fading miracle or measurement problem?Despite the intensive debates on the East Asian economic miracle that persisted during the last decade, the verdict on the source of output growth is inconclusive. There can be no dispute over the importance of total factor productivity  growth in the process of economic development and raising the level of living standards. But, the question of whether TFP growth played a significant role in East Asian economic growth remains contentious, especially in Singapore's case. This paper provides an updated review on productivity growth in the East Asian manufacturing and that of Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan, and recommends options for further research to improve understanding on the issue of TFP growth in East Asian manufacturing. Copyright ⓒ 2005 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
2005	Re-examination of J-curve effect for Japan, Korea and TaiwanThis study uses the generalized impulse response function from the vector error correction (VEC) model to examine whether the J-curve effect exists for Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. Both bilateral (with the US) and aggregate (with the rest of the world) cases are considered. Special attention has been given to the number of lag orders and conintegration selection and the tests of exogeneity of foreign income and structural changes. The conventional J-curve phenomenon can only be observed in Japan's aggregate trade case. In Korea and Taiwan, where most export to import ratio increases during the currency contract period, is consistent with the theory that both economies are small. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
2004	Schumpeter and arrow: Who wins in Korea and Taiwan? a case method analysis of cross country industrial structureA case study approach is applied to a cross-country comparison of Korea and Taiwan to model their developmental patterns and to examine the implications of their approach to industrialization, with specific regard to the theories of vertical integration by Schumpeter and Arrow and the theories of asset specificity by Williamson. The implications of inflation risks, external debt financing, innovation incentives, and restructuring problems from the aftermath of the 1997 Asian financial crisis will also be examined. The methodology used is a case study of two industries: bicycles and semiconductors. The results of this study are being used to create two dynamic models of industrial development for the two countries and to provide reasons for the differences in development paths and the implications associated with the undertaking of two drastically different models of industrialization.
2004	Localization of foreign multinational companies in KoreaIn response to the 1997 Asian financial crisis that devastated the Korean economy, the government performed promotional efforts, comprehensive structural reform, and implemented policies to create a favorable environment for foreign direct investment (FDI). While the Korean government announced deregulation plans to support foreign companies, the public also became more aware of the need for foreign capital to overcome the crisis and revive the economy. The change of atmosphere and the perception on the need to induce the inflow of foreign capital provided the basis for this study. In addition, the crucial role of foreign multinational companies and their efforts to achieve market recognition in a more comprehensive way have provoked this study on the localization of foreign multinational companies in Korea. Investment purposes, entry methods, and the degree of competition by multinational companies in Korea were the variables that lead these companies to respond to localization.
2004	Energy consumption and economic growth in Korea: Testing the causality relationThe causal relationship between energy consumption and economic growth is investigated applying two multivariate time series models: a demand side model of energy, GDP and real energy price and a production side model of GDP, energy, capital, and labor. To test for Granger causality in the presence of cointegration among the variables, we employ a VECM rather than a VAR model. Empirical results from the two models for Korea over the period 1981:1-2000:4 suggest no causality between energy and GDP in the short run and a unidirectional causal relationship running from GDP to energy in the long run. It implies an energy conservation policy may be feasible without compromising economic growth in the long run. It also implies that a sustainable development strategy may be feasible with lower level of CO2 emissions from fossil fuel combustion. ⓒ 2004 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	Divergent Asian views on foreign direct investment and its governanceThis paper reviews recent trends and effects of FDI in developing Asia; domestic policy changes in six Asian host economies (People's Republic of China, India, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, and Viet Nam); and how these policies and experiences influence their attitudes toward managing FDI. Not surprisingly, these countries have differed in their approach to the formulation of international regulations governing FDI. To simplify, their negotiating positions have ranged from strongly in favor (Republic of Korea) to strongly opposed (India); from viewing it as a helpful spur to domestic liberalization (Thailand) to a constraint on development policy options (Malaysia); and from acceptance if implementation is gradual (People's Republic of China) to concern over capability to address the difficulties and challenges of achieving compliance (Viet Nam). ⓒ 2004 Asian Development Bank.
2004	Term spread and real economic activity in Korea: Was the crisis predictable?This paper has three objectives. First, it examines the link between the term spread (difference between long-term and short-term rate of interest) and GDP growth in the Korean economy for the period 1980-1999. Second, it tests for the independent information content of the term spread by including current and expected monetary policy indicators. Third, it explores the usefulness of the spread as a leading indicator of recessions and poses the question, was the crisis of 1997-1998 predictable? ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	Changing welfare regimes in East and Southeast Asia: Crisis, change and challengeThe Asia-Pacific region is a latecomer to the development of the welfare state. However, in some countries, governments have implemented ambitious programmes to extend social security systems and to enlarge the institutional structure of their welfare states. Comparative study of the welfare systems in East and Southeast Asia is, however, underdeveloped and there still is a relative lack of accurate knowledge about welfare systems in the region. Since the Asian financial crisis, more attention has been paid to the social policies of the countries. This paper examines features of welfare regimes in Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Thailand, and undertakes a systematic review of the development, levels and patterns of welfare regimes in the region. Two core questions are answered: can the existing welfare systems help mitigate the social impact of the financial and economic crisis? What are the needs, challenges and developmental perspective's that inform the future of welfare regimes in this region? ⓒ Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2004.
2004	Public R and D expenditure and private R and D expenditure: A causality analysisThis paper examines the long-run and short-run causality issues between public R and D expenditure and private R and D expenditure in Korea by using the cointegration and error-correction models. The overall results show that there exists bidirectional causality between public R and D expenditure and private R and D expenditure. This means that increasing public R and D expenditure has a direct effect on private R and D expenditure and vice versa. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	Corruption and the effect of regime type: The case of TaiwanIn its understanding of how Northeast Asian developmentalism controlled corruption, the political power approach has derived its empirical evidence largely from Korea. The Taiwan case, however, raises anomalies not easily integrated into the prevailing political power explanations of corruption (state centralised rent collection and 'mutual hostaging'). This article will show how the anomalous features of Taiwan may be explained by variations of regime type. Although they are usually grouped together for the purpose of contrast with other regions, Korea and Taiwan exhibited different regime types, the bureaucratic authoritarian and quasi-monolithic types respectively. Reference to Korea as a comparator will highlight the effects of those variations between two political economies commonly thought to be very similar. Using the analytical framework of regime type will enable us to distinguish between strong developmentalist regimes: in how they control corruption; and in how their legacies shape subsequent patterns of corruption under conditions of dual transition (democratisation and economic liberalisation). As such, it will introduce a complementary dimension to the existing political economy analyses of corruption. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	Pro-poor politics and the new political economy of stabilisationTwo of the great anxieties of globalisation have to do with loss of state control over things we thought were controllable. First, the long-drawn out experience of the 'East Asian crisis', still rumbling in Brazil and other parts of the Southern Cone as well as Argentina, has taught us that there is no reliable technology to avoid getting sucked into a financial crisis: simply acquiring possession of the macroeconomic keys of inflation and public-sector deficit, now achieved almost universally, does not provide secure tenure in the house of economic stability. But, second, once expelled from this house, there is also very little agreement about why different countries, often adopting the same (i.e. International Monetary Fund (IMF)) remedies, experience hugely different degrees of difficulty in getting back in: for example South Korea, which achieved almost immediate return to its original growth trajectory, by contrast with Indonesia and Argentina. The thesis of this article is that many of these variations can be explained by the mix of stabilisation instruments adopted by governments, and that the choice of instrument, in turn, reflects a country's political structure. Specifically, we shall argue, using both cross-section analysis and African case-studies, that the global trend towards democratisation has made more difficult, in many countries, the imposition of stabilisation technologies with high social costs - in particular, drastic and rapid cuts in public expenditure, but also shifts in the balance of public spending away from social and towards security and military expenditures. This political pressure towards pro-poor expenditure has harmonised with a similar trend in the policies of international agencies since the 1990s and, in some very poor countries, has produced an economic turn-round. However, we argue in our conclusion that the pro-poor trend, welcome as it is, is not something which simply happens within governments; rather, with globalisation has come a decentralisation of social policy responsibilities, sideways into the hands of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and upwards into the hands of international organisations - the IMF, as well as the World Bank and the aid donors. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	Shifting international competitiveness: An analysis of market share in manufacturing industries in Japan, Korea, Taiwan and the USAIn the present study we conduct constant market share analysis of the imports and apparent consumption of the manufacturing industries of four major economies-Korea, Japan, Taiwan and the USA. Additionally, the current study disaggregates import penetration in manufacturing, including sectors with relatively high technological requirements. Statistical tests of the significance of changes in import penetration in manufacturing industries are also conducted. The real growth of exports and apparent consumption in the two largest OECD markets is decomposed into: (i) the commodity composition effect; and (ii) the competitiveness effect. Finally, we examine the significance of trade policy for changes in import penetration in Japan and the USA.
2004	A Confucian war over childcare? Practice and policy in childcare and their implications for understanding the Korean gender regimeWe ask about the development of childcare policies in Korea and what these mean for our understanding of the gender assumptions of Korean governments. Women's labour market participation has been increasing rapidly, with married women now much more likely to be in the labour market. The provision and regulation around support for women's employment, and especially for mothers' employment, is a key issue and problem for Korean women and for governments. A number of policies give the impression that the Korean government is moving rapidly towards a policy for reconciling work and family based on a dual-earner model of the family. But we argue that a close inspection of these policies suggests that the state is still plying a residual role, legislation is not effectively implemented, and government is giving way to the private sector and to the family in responsibility for childcare. Mothers' accounts of their lives centre on a childcare war played out beneath the apparently harmonious Confucian surface, with resisting husbands supported by powerful mothers-in-law, and daily struggles over the management of services. The Korean government and its policy-makers, far from moving rapidly towards a dual-earner model of the family, are still rooted in Confucian ideals. ⓒ Blackwell Publishing Ltd. 2004.
2004	Calibration of incomplete demand systems in quantitative analysisAn easily implemented and flexible calibration technique for partial demand systems is introduced, combining recent developments in incomplete demand systems and a set of restrictions conditioned on the available elasticity estimates. The technique accommodates various degrees of knowledge on cross-price elasticities, satisfies curvature restrictions, and allows the recovery of an exact welfare measure for policy analysis. The technique is illustrated with a partial demand system for food consumption in Korea for different states of knowledge on cross-price effects. The consumer welfare impact of food and agricultural trade liberalization is measured. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	International trade and gender wage discrimination: Evidence from East AsiaThe paper explores how competition from international trade affects gender wage discrimination in two open economies. According to neoclassical theory, if discrimination is costly, then increased industry competitiveness from international trade lessens the incentive for employers to discriminate against women. This effect should be stronger in concentrated sectors, where employers can use excess profits to cover the costs of discrimination. Alternatively, increased international trade may reduce women's bargaining power to achieve wage gains. Results for Taiwan and Korea indicate that, in contrast to neoclassical theory, competition from foreign trade in concentrated industries is positively associated with wage discrimination against women. ⓒ Blackwell Publishing Ltd 2004.
2004	The foreign exchange exposure of capital structure: The 1997 Asian crises revisitedThe financial crisis of East Asia in 1997 was largely unanticipated and was characterized by the fact that drastic currency depreciation worsens the corporate capital structure and brought widespread financial turmoil. This paper attempts to examine the vicious cycle mechanism of East Asia crisis. A dynamic panel model is proposed to estimate the foreign exchange exposure of capital structure. Using precrisis data, it is shown that the Asian crisis is in fact a problem of structural vulnerability underlying most Asian economies. First, Hong Kong and Singapore have less risky capital structure before the crisis, which also have smaller exposure magnitude. Secondly, Thailand and Korea have more risky capital structure before the crisis and significant vicious cycles are found. These appropriately explain the vicious cycle between currency crisis and domestic financial turmoil: drastic depreciation worsens the debt ratio. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	Trade integration and business cycle co-movements: The case of Korea with other Asian countriesAs Korea increases its trade within Asia, it is becoming more and more integrated with the other economies in the region. Theoretically, increased trade can lead business cycles across trading partners to be patterned in either direction, towards convergence or divergence. By using data for 12 Asian economies, this paper finds that intra-industry trade is the major channel by which the business cycle of Korea becomes synchronized with that of other Asian economies, although increased trade itself does not necessarily lead to close business cycle coherence. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
2004	Identifying financial distress indicators of selected banks in AsiaThe banking sector plays a pivotal role in the economic development of most Asian countries. In 1997, a full-fledged banking and financial crisis took place in South Asian countries. Many banks had to be bailed out by their governments. It is believed that an examination of indicators that led to the problems suffered by banks in this region will be of enormous benefit. Models were developed for each country that identified banks experiencing financial distress as a function of financial ratios. The countries in the study include Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand. The banking sectors of these three countries are ideal for this study, as the banks enjoyed profitability during the pre-crisis period and were the most severely affected by the financial crisis in 1997. Logistic regression was used to analyze the data sample from 1995 to 1997. In the findings, capital adequacy, loan management and operating efficiency are three common performance dimensions found to be able to identify problem banks in all three countries. It is hoped that the financial ratios and results of the models will be useful to bankers and regulators in identifying problem banks in Asia.
2004	The effect of the Asian financial crisis on the performance of Korean nationwide banksThe Asian financial crisis spread its effect quickly across a number of countries. Korea faced serious problems in her financial and corporate sectors. This study considers the performance of Korean nationwide banks before and immediately after the Asian financial crisis. The performance of Korean nationwide banks took a big hit in 1998. Most banks recovered somewhat in 1999 with the notable exception of the further deterioration of Seoul. Several factors possess strong correlations with bank performance. Among other standard findings, equity to assets correlates positively with bank performance, even when the government recapitalized a number of institutions that performed poorly. The Asian crisis did not affect the normal rules of good bank management. The government, however, directly intervened in the banking sector on a large scale to limit the scope of the crisis in the Korean economy. ⓒ 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2004	The role of IT on the Korean economy under IMF controlDuring the period of IMF control of the Korean economy in 1997, development of IT was emphasized as a potential breakthrough for easing the crisis. This paper will analyze the potential of the IT industry for increasing the productivity of the Korean economy. Using the VIO model, the changes in Korea industries before and after IMF control are derived. However, the response to the change in the IT sector falls short of our expectations. Therefore, we conclude that IT policy should be market-oriented in order that even non-IT industries may be positively affected by the development of IT. ⓒ 2004 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	The Asian financial crisis and the natural rate of unemployment: Estimates from a structural VAR for the newly industrializing economies of AsiaWe use a structural vector autoregressive model to estimate the natural rate of unemployment for Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan for the period 1982-2000. Our results show that the dramatic rise in the unemployment rate observed in Hong Kong and Korea was mainly the result of demand shocks rather than structural changes, while in Singapore the unemployment rate rise reflected almost entirely a rise in the natural rate. Taiwan's natural rate has been relatively stable. We offer explanations for these different results in terms of the different economic characteristics (particularly labor market features) of the four countries. ⓒ 2004 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
2004	Large capital inflows to Korea: The traditional developing economy story?It is well documented that global shocks have been the main cause of capital flows to developing countries. This paper uses a structural model of a developing economy to examine the causes and consequences of large capital inflows to South Korea during the 1990s to see if their experience with large inflows matches the usual developing economy story. The results indicate that inflows to Korea were largely a result of global shocks. However, unlike the experiences of Mexico and Latin American economies, Korean real money shocks are more important than global shocks at short-horizons and nearly as important at long-horizons. In addition, the large inflows produced consequences largely detrimental to the future state of the Korean economy. It is concluded that the Korean experience was not entirely identical to the experience of a typical small open economy. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	Are stocks a good hedge against inflation? Evidence from emerging marketsTheory suggests that equities are a good hedge against inflation. However, most of the empirical evidence for industrialized economies suggests that the relationship between stock returns and inflation is negative. One explanation is the negative correlation between inflation and real output growth. This paper examines the relationship between inflation and stock returns for ten important Emerging Stock Market (ESM) markets, namely, Chile, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Thailand, S. Korea, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Philippines and Turkey, during the 1990s. To anticipate the results, the relationship between stock returns and inflation, for the whole sample period, is positive and statistically significant for three of the sample ESMs, while it is positive (but statistically insignificant) for a further three. Only for one ESM is the relationship negative and statistically significant. This result may be due to the role of money and the positive relationship between consumer prices and output.
2004	Formation and development of the welfare state in the Republic of Korea: Process of reform of the public assistance systemThe legal framework for social security in the Republic of Korea began to be formed in the early 1960s (the first period) and further progress was made during the process of democratization in the 1980s (the second period). However, it remained a "top-down" residual system, preserving conservative elements. With the constitutional lawsuit over the right to life in 1994 as a turning point, however, there was a major shift to a universal system, supported by "bottom-up" efforts through petitions to the National Assembly and legislation by Assembly members. This led to the enactment of the Framework Act on Social Security (1995), the National Basic Livelihood Security Act (1999) and other measures (the third period). This paper attempts to analyze the Korean-style welfare state by tracking these institutional changes as well as the main actors.
2004	Is China's accession to WTO threatening exports of developing countries?Using the "revealed competitive advantage indices" for exports and imports, the paper is devoted to the analyses of the vulnerability of selected developing countries if China's competitive position is improved due to its entry to World Trade Organization (WTO). In contrast to the existing literature, which concentrates on labour-intensive products as a group, this paper considers products at a disaggregate level because products in the same group are not often homogeneous. It is argued that the competitive effects of China's accession on developing countries are exaggerated in the literature. In labour-intensive manufactured goods, China competes mainly with South Asian countries (e.g., India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Nepal) and a few Latin American and African countries. However, it also provides them with little demand complementary effects. Nevertheless, some Latin American and African countries may benefit from the expansion of China's imports of foods and agricultural raw materials. In the final market for capital goods, China competes with Asian newly industrializing economies (NIEs) and Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries and in a limited number of goods with Mexico and Costa Rica. For NIEs, unlike others, such competition involves complementary effects through the import of parts and components, which will overoffset the competition effects in the short and medium run. As China develops its capacity to produce components, however, the "competition" effect may dominate.China's export structure is similar to that of the Republic of Korea and Malaysia in the final market for a number of "finished" capital goods. By contrast, Thailand is vulnerable in clothing, miscellaneous household equipment, and electric machinery. Indonesia has little to worry except for furniture. India concentrates mainly on undergarments and China in outer garments. Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Viet Nam, and Nepal have similar export structure with China in some clothing items; however, overall, they (particularly Viet Nam) have been aggressive in exportation of these products. Sri Lanka and Pakistan also compete with China in toys and sporting goods, but both have shown some strength in their exports.Except Mexico, Costa Rica, Haiti, and to some extent Uruguay, the export structure of the Latin American countries is mostly different from that of China. Mexico has a strong competitive position vis-a-vis China in a number of clothing items but weaker in a few assembly operations. Costa Rica's competitive advantage has noticeably improved for a number of clothing items and a few assembly operations. Haiti competes with China in eight products, mostly clothing. It has a strong competitive position in footwear, one clothing item, and some base metal. Uruguay's relative competitive position is weak in a number of labour-intensive products. The export structure of African countries is different from that of China, except for Egypt, Morocco, Tunisia, and Malawi. These countries have improved their competitive position in their clothing.China's entry into the WTO will not change, for some time, its market access for textiles and clothing for it to be a threat to other developing countries. Nevertheless, if China attempts devaluation, the situation could change radically. China's devaluation is, however, unlikely. Over a longer term, much depends on what policy China will pursue in its trade and industrialization. China's attempt in increasing domestic value added in exports could lead to improvement in its competitiveness in technology/skill-intensive products of interest to NIEs and the ASEAN. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	Regional Security Complex Theory and Chinese policy towards North KoreaWith the end of the bipolar rivalry of the Cold War, emphasis on the system level power structure (dominant in international relations theory since the rise of neorealism in the late 1970s) has declined. One of the most interesting theoretical developments to have emerged in this context is Regional Security Complex Theory (RSCT). Like neorealism, RSCT focuses on security. However, the rationale behind early Security Complex Theory was that for the majority of states, the most relevant scale for conceptualising military and political security functioned at the regional rather than the system level. RSCT has now opened the analysis to a wider range of sectors - including economic, societal and environmental security - and the tendency to refer to 'units' rather than 'states' acknowledges the importance of agencies other than the state in terms of security. Nevertheless, the central idea remains that because most threats travel most easily over short distances, security interdependence is normally patterned into regionally based clusters, called security complexes. This essay seeks to examine RSCT with reference to the region, or subregion, of Northeast Asia, focusing on Chinese policy towards the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) after the Cold War. Northeast Asia is not a straightforward area to look at, because of the difficulty in distinguishing between the regional and the global levels. There is a heavy American military presence, and three of the main actors with security interests in the region - the United States, China and the Russian Federation - are nuclear weapons states with permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council. Nevertheless, Northeast Asia is an important area in terms of security - because of the heavy concentration of military capability, high levels of tension, the economic and technological capacity to support a hi-tech arms race and the absence of a multilateral security framework - and provides a worthwhile context in which to assess the analytical applicability of RSCT.
2004	The short-run production effect of the reduction of working hoursKorea's high unemployment rate has returned to the pre-financial crisis level of 1997. However, Korean workers still have the longest working hours among OECD countries. Labor unions and the government are pursuing a reduction in legal working hours to improve quality of life. We investigated the short-run production effects of the reduction in legal working hours on the Korean economy by industry. A two-stage approach was applied. The main result showed that the short-run production effect on the Korean economy was negative in all industries. The manufacturing industry was most severely affected by the reduction in legal working hours. ⓒ 2004 Society for Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	Greater China and East Asian integration: Regionalism and rivalryThis paper has looked at both regionalisation and regionalism in East Asia, focusing on China's changing role. It found that China's regionalisation is intensifying and, to a degree, converging on a common model of interaction. Nevertheless Greater China remains distinctive and retains core advantages as a regional sub-system. But the drawing together of China, Korea and Japan will have very significant implications for the Chinese economic area and for the East Asian region as a whole. It is most important to note, however, that within this new phase of regionalisation competitive and co-operative pressures are emerging in tandem. This is not a paradox but a fundamental characteristic of the regional economy at every level.
2004	European Union integration lessons for ASEAN + 3: The importance of contextual specificityThis paper will argue that EU integration appears to offer ASEAN and three Northeast Asian Countries (China, Japan and South Korea) political and security lessons concerning maintenance of regional stability, as well as some economic lessons. There is not, however, any institutional blueprint for integration that these countries could emulate. This is in part because economies are characterized by "contextual specificity" of chosen institutions and their corresponding working rules. These institutions and rules evolve in particular cultural and historical settings and are shaped by the specific country's philosophical basis, political structure, and attitudes of authorities towards alternative types of economic institutions and the types of corresponding rules they could choose to establish for those institutions. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2004	Information technology and economic development in Korea: A causality studyThis paper examines the causality issue between information technology (IT) investment and economic development for Korea by applying modern time series techniques. Tests for unit roots, co-integration, and Granger causality are presented. The results show that bi-directional causality runs from IT investment to economic development for Korea. This means that increased IT investment directly affects economic development and that an increase in real income also influences IT investment. The study also discusses the implications of the results for addressing IT policy in Korea.
2004	Money demand stability under currency substitution: Some recent evidenceThis study deals with the issue of independent monetary policy and the stability of the domestic money demand function in the presence of currency substitution and capital mobility in five Asian economies. It is argued that money demand will be less stable and more difficult to control in the presence of international variables. The money demand function is derived using the portfolio balance approach. The results from the cointegration analysis reveal that capital mobility and currency substitution are significant factors in the domestic money demand equations for Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand. The results also show that the US dollar, Japanese yen, and British pound are used significantly by domestic residents together with the domestic currency in Indonesia, Korea, Singapore and Thailand. However, in the case of Malaysia, despite the existence of currency substitution for the US dollar and Japanese yen, there is no evidence of currency substitution between the domestic currency and British pound. Therefore, for these countries to have an effective monetary policy, the monetary authorities should take into account the two international factors.
2004	The politics of the Asian financial crisis in Malaysia and South KoreaThis article seeks to answer the following research questions: Why did Malaysia and South Korea choose different economic policies to cope with the 1997 financial crisis? What caused or constrained them? Did they choose different policies, and under what contexts? For this, I examine structural determinants that led to the different policy choices including the nature of the economic crisis, regime types and political leadership. Meanwhile, many scholars have been less concerned with political factors in terms of the cause of the Asian financial crisis and its overcoming process. From the findings, this article argues that their different policy choices resulted from the interaction between economic and political factors. In particular, I argue that political leaders' leadership was the most crucial factor in the different policy choices of the two countries.
2003	The role of Korea in East Asian regional economic cooperationThe East Asian region has seen an increase of intra-regional trade and investment ties since the 1990s. Despite increasing interdependence within the region, efforts to develop regional cooperation scheme have been very weak. No official regional cooperation entity was ever formed among East Asian countries. This lack of regional cooperative body partially results from the passive attitudes of key countries such as Japan and China. The mood, however, changed after the financial crisis of 1997. Major countries in the region began to involve in regional economic cooperation. Korea successfully overcome the 1997-98 financial crisis and began to play an active role in East Asian economic cooperation. This article examines the role of Korea in the East Asian regional economic cooperation. Firstly, it discusses the trajectory of East Asian regionalism and the role of Korea in it. Secondly, recent initiatives by Korea in East Asian regional cooperation especially in ASEAN+3 process are discussed. Thirdly, the paper introduces the Korea's bid for regional hub manifested in the Northeast Asian Economic Hub Strategy by the Roh Moo-hyun government and examines the tasks for the success of the Strategy. Conclusion part briefly touches on the implication of Korea's regional economic hub strategy for the ROK-US relationship.
2003	Korea's regional economic roleThe performance of the Republic of Korea (ROK) in economic development over the past five decades, and its success in overcoming the financial crisis of the late 1990s, have clearly earned Korea a highly respected place in the showcase of modern economic history. A hallmark of these achievements has been the ROK's ability to combine economic rationalism with a strong will to act to overcome both short and long-term challenges. Its ability to design bold policies and to manage sweeping changes in economic strategy and organization, have set a high standard for other countries in the region and globally. As the Northeast Asia region enters a new period of history, with major adjustments in the security and economic landscape taking place on multiple fronts, it is timely to examine the question of how the ROK can draw upon its proven qualities for facing the future with optimism and determination, to play a critically important role in the complex and growing regional economic agenda. This paper aims to illuminate the ROK's potential role as a regional economic power. It first reviews the opportunities and difficulties in the expanding regional economic agenda in Northeast Asia and East Asia more generally. It then reviews recent ROK regional economic activities. Looking ahead, four roles that the ROK appears well suited to fulfill and their implications for future US-ROK relations are discussed.
2003	Regional economic cooperation and the chinese economyThis paper mainly analyses the impact of the development of the Chinese economy on Northeast Asian economic cooperation after its WTO accession, and also the impact of closer regional cooperation on the development of the Chinese economy. Trade and investment relations between China, Korea, and Japan in the past twenty years are explored to illustrate this trend. Possible changes in China's policy toward regional economic cooperation in Northeast Asia are discussed to show the possibility of closer regional economic cooperation.
2003	Energy cooperation between Russia and northeast Asian countries: Rerequisities, directions and problemsThe paper deals with prerequisites, conditions, problems and directions of energy cooperation between Russia and Northeast Asian (NEA) countries. It describes a transition period of the Russian economy, shows the significance of the Eastern energy policy of Russia, and the role the fuel and energy potential of the Eastern regions of Russia can play in its implementation. Prediction of the economy and energy development in the eastern regions of Russia is given in terms of export of Russian energy resources to Japan, China, Korea and other NEA countries. A comprehensive strategy of energy cooperation for NEA countries is shown and elaborated.
2003	Competition policy in Indonesia: Conglomerates versus SMEsSince the currency crisis, Indonesia has undergone rapid economic and political changes. However, the IMF-directed recovery program, such as decentralization, does not seem successful. Despite the improvised legal system, the implementation of the recovery program is very poor. Lack of consensus on the role of conglomerates and the direction of competition policy, has prevented Indonesia from recovery. Anti-conglomerate sentiment of the post-Suharto times has given rise to unbalanced competition law and inconsistency among related laws. Treatment of the banking sector including ownership is a critical factor in the recapitalization process. Due to the similarity between Indonesia and Korea, Korean experiences would help Indonesia to establish the principles on competition policy. The separation principle is strongly recommended for Indonesia at the current development stage, and it is urgent to establish a rule-based, not a discretion-based, economy. The problems of conglomerates should be resolved through comprehensive competition policies.
2003	The competitive liberalization of world trade and Korea's foreign trade policyThe purpose of this paper is to shed light on the existing relationship between multilateralism and regionalism in international trade and the process of competitive liberalization of world trade, and to draw useful lessons for the foreign trade policy of the Republic of Korea. The author first analyzes the deepening process of multilateral trade and the proliferation of regional trade mechanisms at the global level. Subsequently, he comparatively analyzes recent characteristics of the trade policies of the U.S. and the EU as major players in international trade, pursuing parallel track of multilateral and regional approaches. In Asian context, the recent trade policies of Japan and China show that they also have embarked on the dual trade policies of multilateralism and regionalism. In this era of competitive liberalization of world trade, Korea should not be left behind in this process. As a widely trading nation, Korea should promote active trade policies of combining multilateral, regional and bilateral approaches.
2003	Institutions, choices, and outcomes: A comparative analysis of the 1997 financial crisis experience in South Korea and TaiwanSouth Korea and Taiwan have similar experiences as to political and economic development, i.e., rapid economic growth and democratization. However, the 1997 financial crisis experiences were quite different South Korea was hit hard by the crisis whereas Taiwan was barely touched. Why were the experiences different between South Korea and Taiwan? We argue that economic fundamentals were differential leading up to the crisis. More importantly, the differences in the pace of financial liberalization and the method that South Korea financed its growth particularly in the 1990s were much different than Taiwan's. We also argue that the differential impact of the crisis on the two countries can be attributed to the institutions of their respective political economy, decentralized vs. concentrated industrial structure, and interest group structure that helped in the creation of an autonomous state. Given the dominance of SMEs (small and medium sized enterprises) and the state's control of critical resources along with dispersed and weak interest group structures, economic technocrats in Taiwan were able to employ tough pre and post-crisis policies to maintain Taiwan's economic viability, whereas South Korea was not able to.
2003	Korea's economic strategy under the Roh Moo-Hyun government: A proposalThis paper is a proposal for Korea's economic strategy under the Roh regime and beyond. Since economic strategy is predicated on the nation's economic objective and policy environments, sustainable and equitable economic development is regarded as the key objective. Major trends are identified in the policy environment, including the emerging globalization and information era, demographic changes, declining savings and investment rates, and a widening digital divide. In light of these trends, the Korean government should play a complementary role to the private sector, providing a robust infrastructure to safeguard the private sector's development and to attract mobile resources from abroad. Also, Korea must embrace market principles and global standards, and implement appropriate human resources and equity policies.
2003	Taiwan's looming banking crisisAlthough it is unlikely that an economy such as Taiwan would face a balance of payments crisis of the type that hit Asia in 1997, institutional analysis suggests that the banking sector may be vulnerable to an internally driven crisis.This study applies the threshold indicators approach of Kaminsky and Reinhart [Am. Econ. Rev. 89 (1999) 473] to evaluate the likelihood of a banking crisis in Taiwan. Seventy percent of the macroeconomic indicators signal a banking crisis. This percentage is close to that of Korea in late 1996 and is higher than that of Japan just before Japan's banking crisis erupted in the Fall of 1997. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2003	Health policy in the Asian NIEsThis paper compares the health policies of Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan with the purpose of drawing policy lessons. The study finds two distinct policy clusters: Hong Kong and Singapore on the one hand, and Korea and Taiwan on the other. With respect to provision of health care, the former rely largely on public hospitals for delivering inpatient care while the latter rely on private hospitals. In matters of financing, they are similar in that out-of-pocket is a major source of financing in all four countries. However, they are also different because Korea and Taiwan have universal health insurance while the city states do not. The study concludes that public provision of hospital care, as in Hong Kong and Singapore, yields more favourable outcomes than many mainstream economists would have us believe. Conversely, private provision in combination with social insurance, as found in Korea and Taiwan, severely undermines efforts to contain health care costs.
2003	Social policy in South Korea: Cultural and structural factors in the emergence of welfareThere are a number of features that make South Korea an interesting place to study social policy. First, it has experienced rapid economic development with the associated changes in urbanization and demography. This change has created social problems, which the state has had to address. Second, the country retains a strong cultural tradition and repeated affirmation of the values and practices of Confucianism. In this paper, these two features are considered in relation to the way social policy has been addressed. The thrust of the paper will be on the policy responses to perceived social problems and the way in which other social problems are individualized within families. These policies are informed and shaped by Korean politics and culture.
2003	The relative importance of aggregate and disaggregate shocks in Korean business cyclesThis study examines the role of aggregate and disaggregate shocks in a small open economy, Korea. Variation in the growth rates of industrial output is decomposed into portions attributable to aggregate, industry group, and sector-specific shocks. Although all types of shocks play a role, sectoral shocks are the dominant source of sectoral output fluctuations. While aggregate shocks are a significant source of sectoral and aggregate output fluctuations, they are no more important than in large industrialized economies that have been studied previously. Consequently, small open economies may not be any more susceptible to aggregate disturbances than are the G-7 countries. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2003	The impact of the US economy on the Asia-Pacific region: Does it matter?We first confirm the interdependence of the United States and the Asia-Pacific region, and explore the real linkage through trade and investment, and the financial linkage through stock markets. These linkages are strengthened by the recent information technology (IT) revolution. The pairwise and vector autoregression (VAR) model are used to test the Granger causality of real linkage in terms of GDP and the financial linkage in terms of the daily stock price indices among these countries. Impulse response functions and variance decomposition from VAR are illustrated. Our results show that there is no significant unidirectional causality from the US GDP to Japan, Taiwan, Korea, and China. But the slump in the US stock price indices will cause the stock market recession in Japan, Korea, and Taiwan, but not China. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
2003	Korea-China industrial and technological cooperation and further development strategyThis paper presents some strategies for industrial and technological cooperation between Korea and China which are mutually beneficial for their sustained economic growth. The strategies are expected, not only to promote further their economic relation (trade, investment, and technology trade) but also to contribute to the reconciliation of their trade conflict which is associated with the accumulated deficit in China's trade balance with Korea since the two countries entered into diplomatic relation on 24 August 1992. ⓒ 2003 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
2003	Impacts of national development and decentralization policies on regional income disparity in KoreaThis paper analyzed the effects of national development and decentralization policies on the regional income disparity in Korea. It also attempted to test whether there was a structural change in the causal relationship between income inequality and its determinant factors. This study found that the degree of variation in regional incomes was positively correlated with the spatial distribution of decentralization instruments such as educational services, employment, infrastructure facilities, and information network variables. The effects of some decentralization policies on regional income inequality were fully realized within a period of three years. Finally, the impacts of the spatial decentralization of public goods on regional inequality fluctuated until the early 1980s but were stabilized as industrial restructuring and spatial reorganization progressed during the 1990s.
2003	Structural changes and the scope of inflation targeting in KoreaA small, open macroeconomic model that accounts for new financial accelerator effects (the effects of fluctuations in asset prices on bank credit and economic activity) is developed to evaluate various policy rules for inflation targeting. Given the conditions of asset markets and the fragility of the financial sector, monetary policy responses can potentially amplify the financial accelerator effect. Simulations are used to compare various forms of inflation targeting using a model that emphasizes long-term inflation expectations, output changes, and the asset price channels. The simulations suggest that a successful outcome can be obtained by adhering to simple forward-looking rules, rather than backward-looking policy rules. Furthermore, inflation targeting can contribute to price as well as output stability by helping to keep the financial accelerator from being activated. Inflation targeting in emerging economies can provide an environment conducive to long-term capital market development. [E51, F3, F4]. ⓒ 2003, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
2003	Democratizing ChinaWhether China will become democratic is an interesting question with significant practical implications. This paper draws on the experiences of other Confucian societies (mainly Taiwan and South Korea) to show that it will be very difficult for China to become democratic anytime soon. Basically, in a Confucian society, people live in collectivities with stringent hierarchical structures. Such a feature is not conducive to democratization. In the cases of Taiwan and South Korea, cultural change, the emergence of a pluralistic social order following economic development, and foreign influence may have all contributed to their transition to democracy; however, more important is the quasi-pluralistic social order-namely, ethnic and national identity cleavages in Taiwan and regionalism in South Korea-in clearing the hurdle placed by the Confucian culture. Unfortunately, in China, no ready-made quasi-pluralistic social order exists, and other factors conducive to democratization may not be forthcoming soon, rendering the prospect of democratic transition in the foreseeable future quite bleak. ⓒ de Sitter Publications.
2003	An empirical analysis of ricardian equivalence on real exchange rate and current account: KoreaThis paper investigates the responses of real exchange rate and current account as well as consumption in a small open economy to fiscal policies using an alternative time horizon model. Cointegration tests present that there is no stable relationship between the fiscal variables and the real exchange rate, current account, or consumption. The maximum likelihood estimation suggests that fiscal policies seem not to be much effective as the conventional or finite horizon model predicts. REP with infinite horizons seems to be more conceivable to explaining the fluctuation of consumption, real exchange rate, and current account in Korea. [F31, F32]. ⓒ 2003, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
2003	International engagement in North Korea's humanitarian crisis: The role of state and non-state actorsThe current Noth Korean humanitarian crisis is twofold: a food crisis inside, and a refugee crisis outside. This crisis has many causes. First, although unprecedented flooding and drought in recent years have exacerbated food shortages, years of government policies that have given priority to the military and an inefficient command economy are largely responsible for the North Koreans' current famine-stricken plight. Second, parts of international aid relief may have been diverted for personal gain as well as for development of the country's nuclear and missile capabilities by North Korea's military and government elite. Third, political calculations by both donor and recipient states have posed roadblocks in the effort to aid North Koreans who are in desperate need. Fourth, maintaining a daily subsistence standard of living, the majority of North Koreans do not appear to leave their homes unless faced with imminent death due to starvation. Indeed, the defection of North Koreans in search of food is a strong indicator of the extent and severity of the country's famine. Fifth, North Korean famine victims who have fled to China or countries other than South Korea are now trapped by political, diplomatic, and legal restraints. This article intends to examine the role of governments and international organizations, both international intergovernmental organizations (IGOs) and international non-governmental organization (INGOs), that attempt to engage with North Korea regarding humanitarian concerns, with special emphasis on the North's famine and refugee crisis.
2003	Transnational capital, the state and foreign economic policy: Singapore, South Korea and TaiwanVarious discourses and debates on the state - transnational capital relationship have emerged within the international political economy literature. The particular contribution offered here focuses on this relationship in three East Asian developmental states (Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan - the NIE-3) through the lens of foreign economic policy (FEP) analysis. In different ways their respective state governments have all worked closely alongside various forms of transnational capital in sustained yet evolving 'adaptive partnerships', and in accordance to largely state-determined PEP objectives. Moreover, these objectives broadly relate to the pursuit of economic security in the international system. While each of the NIE-3's own path of economic development has differed significantly, there nevertheless exist important similarities, This not just relates to being constituent to the East Asian regional economic dynamic but also their shared developmental state tradition. The relationship between the state and transnational capital is also key to understanding the NlE-3's foreign economic policy formation, although this has differed significantly across the group. In sum, this study analyses just one of many contemporary examples where both the state and transnational capital are working to congruent ends in their respective adaptations to the challenges posed by globalization.
2003	Political structures and financial liberalization in pre-crisis East AsiaEast Asian economies differed dramatically in their vulnerability to the financial shocks of 1997-98. In the current literature on the Asian crisis, one key factor commonly adduced to explain the uneven crises is different national approaches to liberalizing the financial market. While extant analyses have yielded important insights into the correlation between divergent liberalization patterns and uneven crises, they have failed to deal with the crucial question of why East Asian economies diverged in their respective paths to financial market liberalization. To account for differences in liberalization approaches, this article develops an institutional explanation of financial policy choices. It posits that variations in liberalization patterns stem from fundamental differences in the organizational structures of the private sector, the bureaucracy, and the party system that shape the economic interests and political behavior of social groups and state agencies in the policy-making process. In making this argument, the article focuses on Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and Thailand, the four major East Asian economies that pursued different liberalization strategies during the 1980s and 1990s and had contrasting performance in the recent financial crisis. It argues that cross-national differences in the above-mentioned domestic political structures within the four economies are the primary sources of their divergent liberalization approaches and outcomes, which, in turn, impacted financial stability to differing degrees and generated varying abilities to withstand external shocks.
2003	A note on globalization and income distribution - The case of Korea, 1975-1995This paper evaluates the hypotheses concerning the impact of globalization on income distribution in Korea. The regression results based on annual data covering the period 1975-1995 show that there is a weak evidence supporting the Kuznets hypothesis. The turning point in the Korean economy is revealed to be between around US $5000 and US $6000. Neither changes in the openness ratios regardless of the measures nor those in the FDI inflows are revealed to be significant in influencing the Gini coefficients. That is, globalization does not influence income distribution in Korea. ⓒ 2002 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
2003	Comparative analysis of foreign direct investment in China: Firms from South Korea, Hong Kong, and the United States in Shandong provinceThis article investigates in comparative perspective the behavior and strategies of FDI firms in China from South Korea, the United States, and Hong Kong. We compare the firms' motivations for FDI, sectoral distribution of FDI and ownership advantages, corporate governance and ownership, and linkage with local Chinese firms. Our study has four major findings. First, on motivations for investment, the Korean FDI firms in China aimed to use China as an export-processing base, whereas the US FDI firms tend to target local Chinese markets. Hong Kong FDI firms tend to be somewhere between the Korean and the American firms, targeting both export and local markets. Second, on the sectoral distribution of FDI and related ownership advantages, the Korean FDI firms focus on labor-intensive sectors over which they have ownership advantages, exploiting cheap labor and raw materials, while ownership advantages of the US and Hong Kong firms tend to lie in capital-intensive sectors. Third, on the governance forms of the FDI firms, the Korean FDI firms show a strong preference for wholly foreign-owned FDI, whereas Hong Kong and American FDI firms show less preference for this type of arrangement. Hong Kong firms show some preference for the contractual joint ventures that enable more flexible arrangements between partner firms. Fourth, on linkage with local firms, Korean FDI firms rely very little on backward linkage with local firms, whereas US and Hong Kong firms show a strong tendency for backward linkage with local firms.
2003	Saving dynamics in the Asian countriesThis paper investigates empirically the factors that have influenced the savings behavior in the fast growing Asian economies-Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines. Both the short and long-run movements of savings are modeled during the 1960-1997. The empirical results of the analysis based on time series data may be summarized as follows: (i) foreign savings deters domestic saving both in the short and long run; (ii) savings does not Granger cause economic growth, except for Singapore; (iii) the effect of interest rate on saving in Asian countries is inconclusive and it reflects the extent of financial liberalization adopted in these countries; and (iv) in the long run the causality runs from foreign to domestic savings. ⓒ 2002 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
2002	Economic integration in Northeast Asia: Preconditions and possible trajectoriesWhen in November 2001, the leaders of the Southeast Asian and Northeast Asian states met for the "ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) plus three (China, Japan and Korea)", President Kim Dae-Jung of South Korea proposed the exploration for an East Asian Free Trade Area (EAFTA) and thereby opened a new chapter of East Asian integration. The special Northeast Asian perspective on regional co-operation became clear by the simultaneous decision to hold annual meetings of finance and trade ministers of China, Japan and Korea. At the same time, bilateral agreements, like a free trade area between Japan and Singapore, the tentative large free trade area between ASEAN and China and the work-in-progress on a Korean-Japanese Free Trade Area, show the devotion and sometimes even obsession of current policy-making with reaching regional trade agreements. Regional integration, it seems, is finally on the Northeast Asian agenda. In this paper, the preconditions and perspectives of economic integration in Northeast Asia will be explored. Since economic integration is in various ways linked to political factors, the second section discusses the geo-political situation of Northeast Asia today. The third section deals with the economic perspectives of different forms of trade integration, followed by an analysis of various attempts for greater macro-economic and financial co-operation and a short conclusion.
2002	Economics and security in northeast Asia: The iron silk road, its context and implicationsIn recent years, there have been some developments in East Asia. North Korea has officially stated that it is developing nuclear weapons. Because of this, its neighbors have been uneasy and have resulted in significant changes. Previously, there was a primary drive to develop East Asia's economic potential. South Korea wanted to specialize in certain key strategic industries while becoming the region's business hub. Russia wanted to exploit its vast eastern region for its natural resources and build a railway connecting Europe to East Asia. Japan wants to escape its economic slump. China wants to bring about a new era of prosperity for its people. However, this all changed because of North Korea. Now, these nations are delicately balancing their economic priorities with political and military security.
2002	Uncertainty in foreign policy making: A Bayesian game analysis of KoreaBayesian games are used to analyze situations where at least one player is uncertain about the other's preferences. For the past decade or so, the Bayesian models have been rigorously applied to various aspects of international relations involving uncertainty. These models have contributed to our understanding of international relations by uncovering complicated strategic interactions through deductive reasoning and by generating many empirically testable hypotheses. Apart from these efforts for general theory developments, however, scholars rarely applied Bayesian models to analyze real-world international events, although many of them involve situations where one or more players are uncertain about the other's preferences. Some of these events are interesting and important in their own right, given their potential impact on regional security and the amount of attention paid by scholars and politicians alike. Therefore, these cases warrant independent studies utilizing Bayesian models. In this paper, we have developed two Bayesian models for the changing relationships North Korea has with South Korea and the United States. We also discuss another interesting aspect of North-South Korea-United States relations where North Korea is simultaneously playing similar, but separate, games with South Korea and the United States.
2002	Productivity and economic growth in East Asia: Innovation, efficiency and accumulationThis paper uses a varying coefficients frontier production function model to examine the sources of growth between 1987 in four East Asian economies-Hong Kong, Singapore, Japan and South Korea. Using data for 20 manufacturing sectors at the three-digit SIC level, this study provides the first comprehensive examination of sources of growth that allows one to decompose total factor productivity growth, separating out technical efficiency changes (TECs) from technological progress (TP). We find that while there is ample evidence of the importance of increasing inputs in growth, and there is some support for technical efficiency changes, or cathching up to the frontier over this period, there is weak or even negative evidence for the role of technological progress, measured as a shift in the estimated production frontier. ⓒ 2002 Published by Elsevier Science B.V.
2002	Impacts of regional development strategies on growth and equity of Korea: A multiregional CGE modelThis paper is concerned with the assessment of major regional development strategies such as the three Coastal area development strategies (East Coast Development, South Coast Development, and West Coast Development) and the Seoul-Pusan development corridor strategy in terms of efficiency and equity. Multiregional Computable General Equilibrium for Korea is developed to capture the economic impact of regional investment expenditures, estimating the time-series influences of regional development alternatives on economic growth, inflation, welfare, income distribution, and interregional economic inequality for ten periods. In a sense that the main point of concern in the national development planning of Korea is with the question of improvement of national competitiveness with more equitable interregional income distribution, it is necessary to promote the West Coast region rather than the Seoul-Pusan development corridor. The West Coast regional development can lead to substantial gain in GDP and reduction in regional income disparity. In a multinational economic perspective, this regional development is expected to contribute to the economic cooperation of Northeast Asia and to enhancing the joint comparative advantages between China and Korea. However, it might worsen the income inequality in the long run. ⓒ Springer-Verlag 2002.
2002	The Mafioso State: State-led market bypassing in South Korea and Turkey'Developmental' states often obfuscate the distinction between the state and the market, as state actors prefer political over economic solutions to market problems (market bypassing). Market bypassing is a process of replacing monopolies in the private sector with state monopolies; in so doing, the state transforms itself into a mafioso state. The business of the mafioso state is selling 'protection' to businesses and collecting extracts, either legal or illegal, in return. The result of the mafioso state in the economy is the conglomeration of business, as is clearly the case in both South Korea and Turkey.
2002	Bioprospecting, benefit sharing, and biotechnological capacity buildingSubstantial attention has been given to the obligations of developed countries to share benefits and transfer technology in exchange for access to biodiversity. There has been comparatively little discussion of measures that developing countries can take to attract and fully benefit from bioprospecting endeavors. Efforts in Costa Rica and South Africa to promote value-added bioprospecting and national programs in Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, and Cuba to develop biotechnological capabilities are analyzed for insights into the components of successful strategies for sustainable development of biochemical resources. Potential synergies between national programs to promote biotechnology and value-added bioprospecting are also discussed. ⓒ 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2002	Corporate governance in South Korea: The chaebol experienceUtilizing a large sample of South Korean firms, this paper explores the impact of corporate governance in an emerging market country dominated by a few large business groups. Firms affiliated with the top five groups (chaebol) exhibit significantly lower performance and significantly higher sales growth relative to other firms. Furthermore, top executive turnover is unrelated to performance for top chaebol firms, indicating a breakdown of internal corporate governance for the largest business groups. Internal corporate governance appears much more effective for firms unrelated to the top chaebol as managers at poorly performing firms are significantly more likely to lose their job. These results imply that the lack of properly functioning internal corporate governance among the top chaebol, which dominate the Korean economy, may have increased the severity of the recent financial crisis. ⓒ 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
2002	Crisis vulnerabilityEarlier attempts to explain the East Asian crisis of 1997 have overemphasised the importance of contagion, missing the central role of vulnerability. According to conventional accounts, Thailand experienced a financial panic due to such factors as corrupt government and corporate practices, inadequately supervised banks and venal currency speculators. Confidence in the Thai currency and banking system collapsed, provoking capital flight, a float of the Thai currency and a drastic decline in its value. This undermined confidence in the prospects of other East Asian countries, also provoking crises there. This article clarifies the concept of vulnerability and demonstrates its relevance by showing the long-term development of vulnerability in each of the three 'IMF bail-out' countries: Thailand, Indonesia and Korea. By 1996 all three were vulnerable to a currency crisis. Contagion provided the short-term trigger for the crisis but was not its underlying cause. The policy lesson is to avoid vulnerability, not to attempt to avoid contagion.
2002	Asian finance and the role of bankruptcy: A model of the transition costs of financial liberalizationThe degree to which bankruptcy is permitted to play a role in the allocation of capital is a key distinction of the state-directed financial regime of Japan, South Korea, and many other Asian economies. Focusing on the development and characteristics of the Japanese main-bank system and comparing it to the Anglo-American approach, this paper discusses the two approaches to finance and argues that a major problem with the bank-finance model used in many Asian countries is its minimization of bankruptcy risks. A three-sector development model is described and simulated to compare the outcomes of the two approaches separately and then to evaluate the transition costs of switching from a state-directed to a market-directed financial regime. The simulation results suggest that the market approach results in a higher long-run growth path because it eliminates inefficient firms through bankruptcy. The results also suggest that switching from a state-directed to a market-directed model can be very costly to the economy. These transition costs can be lowered by a phased-in liberalization but are increased by delay. We then discuss the policy implications. ⓒ 2002 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
2002	An econometric test of Wagner's law for six countries based on cointegration and error-correction modelling techniquesThe present study empirically examined five different versions of Wagner's law by employing annual time-series data on six countries over the period 1951-1996. Three countries are part of the emerging industrialized countries of Asia (South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand) and three are industrialized countries (Japan, USA, and the United Kingdom). The analysis is an advance over previous work in two ways: first, the stationarity propertities of the data and the order of integration of the data are empirically investigated using the Augmented Dickey-Fuller (ADF) and the Kwiatkowski et al. (Journal of Econometrics, 1, 1992) (KPSS), tests and second, the hypothesis of a long-run relationship between income and government spending is tested using bivariate cointegrated systems and employing the methodology of cointegration analysis as suggested by Johansen (Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control, 12, 1988) and Johansen and Juselius (Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics, 52, 1990). The results indicate that there exist a long-run relationship between income and government spending for sample countries studied with the exception of Thailand. Furthermore, it is found that the results concerning the validity of Wagner's Law are also held for selected countries studied with the exception of Thailand.
2002	Do military exports stimulate civil exports?Recent research suggests that the economic benefits to the UK economy from arms exports might not be that great. Surveys suggest that almost two-thirds of those that lose their job in the defence industry either retire or find new work within one year and arms exports are heavily subsidized by the UK government. Thus any cut in such exports would reduce the annual subsidy payable by the British taxpayer. However, in addition to the direct economic benefits from defence exports there might be indirect effects. Hartley and Hooper (Does trade follow the flag? A study of the UK trade and security policy, Centre for Defence Economics, University of York, 1998) considered whether UK arms exports might lead to higher civil exports. This paper examines this hypothesis. It estimates import demand functions for three countries (Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and South Korea) and for the world as a whole over the period 1970-1997. The results suggest that UK arms exports do not stimulate UK civil exports.
2002	Exports and growth: Is the export-led growth hypothesis valid for provincial economies?This paper re-examines the export-led growth hypothesis using provincial data. Unlike other studies that concentrate on country-level data, this study investigates the validity of the hypothesis for four largest provinces in Korea: Seoul, Kyunggee, Kyungnam, and Pusan. The causal implication of the export-led growth hypothesis is generally supported for all provinces in the sample. The framework of analysis is two- and four-variable autoregressive models that include provincial exports, provincial output, terms of trade, and national output shocks. Granger causal orderings from exports to output growth are generally supported in bivariate causal models. In multivariate models, variance decompositions and impulse response functions further indicate that export growth has a significant impact on output growth for all provinces although a feedback effect from output to export growth appears in Seoul and the Kyungnam province.
2002	Weapons of mass destruction: Major wars, regional conflicts, and terrorismThe twentieth century saw the creation and development of weapons of mass destruction (WMD): nuclear, chemical, and biological. In the following article, Ryukichi Imai, distinguished research fellow at the Institute for International Policy Studies and visiting professor at Kyorin University, Japan, describes the history of WMD and the international treaties that have been negotiated on their non-proliferation. He focuses on the history of the nuclear bomb from its first tests, to the nuclear arms race and the subsequent deterrence. He goes on to examine the issues surrounding the nuclear hot-spots of South Asia and North Korea, as well as the feasibility and effects of chemical and biological weapons. He argues that the suicide plane attacks on 11 September changed the very concept of WMD and that any future threat of a mass destruction is likely to come from terrorists beyond the reach of governments. ⓒ 2002, Copyright Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
2002	Democratization, dispersed interest groups, and economic reform in South Korea: Understanding the decline of the "Chaebol Republic"The 1997 financial crisis exposed serious weaknesses in South Korea's economy, with its heavy reliance on large conglomerates (chaebol). During the late authoritarian period, the chaebol arose through state guidance and subsidies, becoming the central players in South Korea's export-led growth boom. The early democratic period saw limited efforts toward economic liberalization. But these measures reduced state over-sight while actually expanding the privileged access to credit enjoyed by the chaebol. The resulting investment distortions and financial weaknesses were the most important root causes of the 1997 crisis. The 1997 presidential election brought the outsider Kim Dae-jung to power. Kim launched an unprecedented assault on the credit privileges and corporate governance structures of the chaebol. However, the reforms have been compromised by measures to prevent a large transitional recession. It is argued that the overall pattern of ambitious but compromised reform is explained by two main considerations. First, Kim did not want to alienate "dispersed interest groups" (the urban service sector and agriculture). These want to conserve the favorable elements of South Korea's economic model while purging the dross. And at the same time, Kim wanted to focus transitional restructuring costs on the most hostile "concentrated interest group" constituencies (the chaebol and government sectors) of the opposition Grand National Party.
2002	Corporate debt resolution and the role of foreign capital in the post-crisis restructuring of the Republic of KoreaThe outbreak of the financial crisis in the Republic of Korea in 1997 exposed the structural weaknesses in the country's economy. Heated debates have failed to generate definitive answers on just what caused the financial crisis. Considering the importance of restructuring the corporate sector, this paper analyzed how the resolution of corporate debts was accomplished and examined the role of foreign capital in Korea's post-crisis corporate restructuring. Special attention was given to the measures devised to recover nonperforming loans for the liquidation of corporate debts, to the foreign capital inflows through cross-border M and As or privatization processes, and to the changes in control through corporate governance reforms. This paper concluded that the resolution of corporate debts has been satisfactory and successful and that foreign capital contributed significantly to effective corporate restructuring and debt resolution in the post-crisis restructuring of Korea.
2002	Insolvency in the corporate sector and financial crisis in KoreaThe paper argues that by the time of the 1997-98 crisis, Korea's corporate and financial sectors became highly vulnerable to bankruptcy. Evidence is presented showing that between the late 1980s and 1997 the profitability of Korea's corporate sector was on a decreasing trend although it had some short-term ups and downs. It is argued that the declining profitability, which in combination with a rising debt leverage impaired the corporate sector's debt-service capacity, was due to rising labor costs in Korea and increasing competition from labor-abundant, developing countries such as China.
2002	The domestic effects of tight monetary policy in the wake of Thailand's financial crisisOne of the most contentious and important questions remaining about Asia's financial crisis is whether or not the policies advocated by the IMF were excessively severe, causing an unnecessary degree of damage to the domestic economies of Indonesia, South Korea, and Thailand. In Thailand, the country examined in this paper, the conditions for the IMF loan of August 1997 included the Thai government allowing weak financial firms to fail and implementing tight monetary policies. By May of 1998, only thirty-five of Thailand's ninety-one finance/securities companies still operated and four of Thailand's fifteen banks had been taken over by the government. Thailand's remaining banks and finance companies lived under the threat of having their capital written off and management replaced. This paper uses data envelopment analysis (DEA) to find empirical evidence that the resulting reduction of credit affected all sectors of Thailand's economy. The strong and healthy sectors of Thailand's economy were hurt, along with the weak sectors.
2002	Between two coordination failures: Automotive industrial policy in China with a comparison to KoreaSince 1985, China has attempted to re-structure its automotive industry through an industrial policy approach closely modelled on that of Korean government in the 1970s. While the growth of the automotive industry has been impressive, government's consolidation attempt has been a failure. The size of the Chinese firm is small in a sector with well-known economy of scale (EOS) features and even the largest firm operates below minimum efficient scale. This article analyses the reasons why government in Korea could enforce EOS-enhancing policies in the 1970s and 1980s while the Chinese government, with similar policies, has not been able to do so. The argument is that the success of automotive industrial policy (AIP) requires two necessary components. One is to overcome a coordination failure on the part of the firms to invest at less than a socially optimal level. This is the familiar form of market failure and is known as Coordination Failure 1 (CF1) in this article. The other is to overcome a coordination failure on the part of the firms to invest excessively. This is known as Coordination Failure 2 (CF2). CF2 is more costly to overcome than CF1 in institutional terms and China's divided and decentralized bureaucratic arrangements have made it difficult for government to overcome CF2.
2002	Macroeconomic impacts of the Korean financial crisis: Comparison with the Cross-country patternsIt has already been more than three years since the Asian financial crisis that erupted in 1997 brought unprecedented economic and social distress to the Korean economy. No one had expected its initial impacts would be so severe as to throw the booming economy into a tailspin in such a short period of time. The GDP growth rate in Korea plummeted from the pre-crisis average of 7 per cent to -6.7 per cent in 1998, while the inflation rate rose from 4.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. Only from the second half of 1998 did the Korean economy start to recover from the free-fall, but the recovery process has been no less drastic than its free- fall. The GDP growth rate in 1999 bounced back to 10.7 per cent. The purpose of this paper is to make an assessment and provide a summary of this speedy adjustment in Korea. In particular, we analyse the macroeconomic adjustment process of the Korean financial crisis in a broad historical and international perspective. This paper consults the records of all countries that have experienced a currency crisis and received conditional financial assistance from the IMF during the period of 1973 to 1994. From these cross-country data, we draw some stylised facts about the behaviour of key macroeconomic variables such as GDP growth, inflation, current account, and employment growth during the adjustment period. Then we compare these stylised facts with the Korean cases.
2002	Hong Kong, Singapore and the East Asian crisis: How important were trade spillovers?The aim of this paper is to establish the intensity of trade and real investment linkages between the crisis-affected economies, viz. Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, the Philippines and Korea (henceforth referred to as the Asia-5 economies) to Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as to ascertain the importance of trade spillovers in spreading the regional downturn to the twin cities. The layout of the remainder of this paper is as follows. Section 2 focuses on trade complementarities, examining patterns of Hong Kong's and Singapore's trade and real investment linkages with the Asia-5 economies. Section 3 turns its attention to the nature of competitiveness-driven trade spillover channel, investigating the degree of similarity of comparative advantage and export structures of the regional economies. Having outlined the nature of direct and indirect channels of trade linkages, Section 4 quantifies the economic impacts of the economic slowdown in the Asia-5 economies on Hong Kong's and Singapore's GDPs. The final section provides a summary by way of concluding. An Appendix describes the direct trade effect index used in Section 4.
2002	The Asian crisis: Trade causes and consequencesTrade appears to have been a significant factor in the emergence and development of the Asian crisis. The partial loss of steam of the trade engine of growth in Southeast Asia contributed to the worsening of the external position of Thailand and to the weakening of the corporate sector in both Thailand and Korea. This weakness naturally spread to the financial sector of the two countries and of the region. The crisis itself, once it broke out and spread to other parts of Asia (and possibly beyond), affected world trade negatively. The main aggregate result - a significant slowdown in the growth of world trade in 1998 - was largely the consequence of two concurrent events: the sharp decline in imports by developing Asian countries, particularly those directly affected by the currency crisis, and the decline in imports by Japan, whose economic downturn, after several years of near stagnation, coincided with the new financial turmoil in the region. The direct effects of the Asian crisis on world trade, however, were not as large and negative as feared. The countries most affected by the crisis managed to recover rather quickly from it, by using absorption-reducing policies that created export slack and by exchange-rate-led price adjustments that improved the countries' external price competitiveness. Export price changes, vis-a-vis the rest of Asia and the main industrial areas, helped sustain fast growth of export volumes and boosted domestic economic activity in the countries most directly affected by the crisis in 1997-98. Export-led recovery was helped by demand growth in the United States and Europe, which absorbed much of the surplus of Asia's tradable production. Other developing areas were little affected by the trade adjustment of Asia, except for the negative impact that the downturn in economic activity and demand in the region had on the world prices of primary commodities. The main external effects of the crisis on the rest of the developing world, apart from the financial contagion consequences, were transmitted through the prices of internationally traded goods.
2002	China and the global business revolutionAs China joins the World Trade Organisation, the author questions whether China's large firms will be able to compete on the global level playing field. Over the past two decades, Chinese large enterprises have undertaken extensive evolutionary change (comparable to that of other latecomer countries such as Korea, Taiwan and Singapore) but, at the same time, the world's leading firms have undergone a revolutionary transformation. Based on analysis derived from case studies made in the course of the China Big Business Programme at the Judge Institute of Management Studies, Cambridge, the author concludes that China's large firms have not caught up with the world's leading businesses.
2002	Why the tigers roared: Capital accumulation and the East Asian miracleRecent growth accounting studies of Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and South Korea have found that the Solow residuals in these economies were relatively small. Given the high capital contributions, these results are often interpreted as evidence that factor accumulation, savings and investment were the principal cause of the East Asian miracle. This paper develops an alternative method of analysing these data, combining growth accounting methods with the linearized neoclassical growth model of Mankiw et al. (1992). The method explicitly quantifies the extent to which increases in productivity, as measured by the Solow residual, induced capital accumulation in these economies. It shows that in Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea, productivity growth contributed between half and two-thirds of the growth in GDP per worker over a 20-year period.
2002	Explaining change in national HRD strategies: The case of three asian tigersIn this article we argue that changes in the national human resource development policies of the three ‘Tiger’ economies of Singapore, Taiwan and S. Korea, are best explained by internal changes in the relationship between the state, capital and labour, rather than the impact of external factors. External factors are not without influence but of the two external sources of change operating at the international level, it is the underlying changes in the market that are more important than the actions of international agencies, such as the IMF, in explaining the incremental changes which can be observed in national HRD strategies. ⓒ 2002 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
2002	Chaebols, financial liberalization and economic crisis: Transformation of quasi-internal organization in KoreaThis paper argues that the course and outcome of post-1993 financial reform in Korea were largely influenced by the politics of the most powerful interest group in Korea chaebols. Thus, an examination of their influence is essential to understanding the cause of Korea's financial crisis in 1997-1998. The paper concludes that a financial reform that is undertaken in a haphazard manner and manipulated by a few dominant players in the economy is in danger of producing an outcome worse than the system it seeks to reform.
2001	South Korea's economic reform and its AftermathThis paper analyzes the process of Korea's recovery from the 1997 financial crisis with several policy implications. The driving force behind the better-than-expected economic recovery was the reform measures introduced by the Korean government in four major areas such as the financial, corporate, labor and public sectors. Also, Korea's strong export performance helped by the booming U.S. economy provided a favorable external condition for recoveiy. Internally, surging investment in the IT and venture industries, which was deliberately fostered by the government, along with the revived consumption level, enabled the rapid recovery. However, as the U.S. economy slowed and the technology bubble burst in 2000, the Korean economy went through a mild recession in 2001. Based on the experiences of crisis and recovery, the implication of macroeconomic fundamentals is re-examined. Even though the strong macroeconomic fundamentals were misleading in preventing the crisis, they later facilitated the Korean economy's recoveiy. As a result of various reform measures, the Korean economy as of today is in a different environment First, the low investment rate along with the decreased saving rate will marie the end of the high growth era. Second, the substantial deterioration of income distribution will be the major task to be tackled with in the future. Third, the Korean economy is now fully liberalized both in the commodity and capital markets with some side effects and merits. Fourth, the loan and deposit structure of the financial sector is significantly altered. Lastly, more fiscal burden is placed on the shoulders of the government due to the heavy debt service burden of public funds and the generous expansion of social welfare programs.
2001	Of miracles and models: The rise and decline of the developmental state in South KoreaThis article argues that the South Korean economic 'miracle' was based on the ability of the state to implement a strongly developmental policy. The state was able to do so because, for a time, it was highly insulated from demands from social classes which might have diverted it from the objective of industrialisation. This insulation, or 'relative state autonomy', derived from an historical trajectory which left the state in an unusually dominant position in relation to these classes. Domestic dominance was one factor enabling the state to insert the South Korean economy into world markets in a more advantageous position than would otherwise have been possible. However, its very success in industrialising the country strengthened various class forces, whose demands and intrusion into politics undermined the autonomy of the state. With industrialisation, the state's freedom of manoeuvre was lessened. International influence only reinforced those class pressures inside South Korea. The overall effect was to force a retreat of the state and an end to a developmental policy.
2001	Exchange rates and the trade balance for dynamic Asian economies-Does the J-curve exist for Singapore, Malaysia, and Korea?The purpose of this article is to examine the relationship between the real trade balance and the real exchange rate for bilateral trade in merchandise goods between Singapore, Korea, and Malaysia and the USA and Japan on a quarterly basis over the period 1970 to 1996 using the partial reduced form model of Rose and Yellen (1989) derived from the two-country imperfect substitutes model. With the exception of Korean trade with the USA, and in line with recent work using a similar methodology, our findings suggest that the real exchange rate does not have a significant impact on the real trade balance, and for Singapore and Malaysia we can find no persuasive evidence for J-curves. For Korea, however, the data were consistent with the some J-curve effects with respect to both Japan and the USA. Moreover, it is possible that for Korea these effects were being masked or muted by "small" country pricing of exports in foreign currency, but there was no evidence that imports subsequently fell as the lag length on the real exchange rate increased, which would be required to support a strict interpretation of the J-curve.
2001	Social policy and mortality decline in East Asia and Latin AmericaSince 1960, Chile and Costa Rica have improved life expectancy and infant survival as much as South Korea and Taiwan, despite growing more slowly, suffering more income poverty, and having more unequally distributed incomes. This paper analyzes the origins and impact of the publicly-funded social services that allowed Chile and Costa Rica to achieve rapid reductions in the risk of early death, despite relatively poor performance on income-related indicators; and explores how South Korea and Taiwan managed to achieve similar progress at reducing premature mortality, despite making less deliberate efforts to fund social services for the poor. ⓒ 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2001	Capital flows and exchange rates: Recent Korean and Taiwanese experience and challengesWe first study the characteristics of the financial crisis and its impacts on Taiwanese and Korean economies. We have examined 22 macroeconomic fundamentals, such as GDP, inflation rates, government budget, trade balance, external debt, money supply, and ratios of average monthly imports and cumulative inward portfolio investment to international reserves, and compared with an extensive data set of the two countries. The comparisons point out that the macrofundamentals of both countries are basically the same, except the international finance sector. After defining currency crisis and banking crisis, the causes of crises are identified as the nominal exchange rates and the short-term external debt-to-international reserves ratios. In view of this, we use cointegration and causality tests to examine the relationship between these two time series. We have found a unidirectional causality from the short-term debt ratio to the exchange rate for Korea, but no causality between the two for Taiwan. The paper ends with some discussions on the lessons and challenges from the experience of the two countries. ⓒ 2001 Elsevier Science Inc.
2001	A search for robust East Asian development models after the financial crisis: Mutual learning from East Asian experiencesThe purpose of this paper is to search for new robust East Asian economic development models following the financial crisis. Specifically, this paper addresses both robustness and sustainability of Korea's Chaebol-led model, Taiwan's SMEs-led model, and Malaysia's FDI-led model, respectively. East Asia's new development paradigm can be reformulated not only by adopting and learning advanced financial innovations of global standards in the framework of Gershenkron's "advantages of backwardness," but also in the concept of "mutual learning" from both strengths and weaknesses of development models of the three countries. East Asia has neglected too long some inherent wisdoms that are contained in its "miracle models," yet it shows that their different paths to development may lead to a positive policy convergence. ⓒ 2001 Elsevier Science Inc.
2001	Asian and OECD international R&amp;D spilloversPrevious studies have demonstrated an empirical relationship between accumulated R&D expenditures and total factor productivity , and have shown that the benefits of R&D can spill across countries through trade. This paper extends these analyses to a sample of 15 OECD countries and six Asian countries, Chinese Taipei, India, Indonesia, Korea, Singapore and Thailand. An empirical model is estimated which relates TFP to domestic and foreign R&D activity, TFP catch-up and business cycle variables. Model estimates show that TFP and domestic R&D capital are positively related, and that domestic R&D has a relatively large impact on TFP growth in the NICs and LICs. Country-specific international R&D spillover elasticities are of mixed sign, and no apparent pattern by country group is evident. While this result does not change the earlier qualitative conclusions, it suggests that estimates of sample average R&D spillover elasticities should be cautiously interpreted.
2001	A model of Schumpeterian dynamicsTwo key element of Schumpeterian dynamics - new innovations in technology and creative destruction - are used here to develop a growth model, which is then applied empirically for two economies: Japan and Korea in their rapid phases of growth.
2001	Financial restraints in the South Korean miracleWe provide novel empirical evidence on the effects of financial restraints on South Korean financial development. The evidence is linked to a simple model of the Korean banking system that encapsulates its cartelised nature, which predicts a positive association between financial development and (i) the degree of state control over the banking system, (ii) mild repression of lending rates. The model also predicts that in the presence of lending rate controls, increases in the level of the administered deposit rate are unlikely to influence financial deepening. We test the model empirically by constructing individual and summary measures of financial restraints. Our empirical findings are consistent with our theoretical predictions but contrast sharply with the predictions of earlier literature that postulates that interest rate ceilings and other financial restraints constitute sources of 'financial repression'. ⓒ 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
2001	APEC and the Asian economic crisis: Early signals from productivity trendsThis paper provides empirical estimates of total factor productivity  trends in a sample of 17 APEC countries over the period 1975 to 1996. TFP growth is an important measure of an economy's performance and if measured correctly it can provide valuable guidance on issues related to the assessment of sustainable growth trends. We use the Malmquist index to measure TFP growth and decompose it into an efficiency change and a technical change component. This decomposition provides extra insight on assessing sustainable growth trends. The measurement technique itself is regarded as a significant improvement over previous conventional measures of TFP growth. The results are very interesting. Japan, Thailand and primarily Indonesia and Malaysia are identified as countries exhibiting on average negative TFP growth rates in the 1975-1990 period. In all these countries as well as in South Korea and Taiwan the main cause of low TFP growth is a poor (negative) efficiency record. The average TFP growth rate for Japan and Malaysia is positive in the 1975-1996 period but the efficiency change component remains negative. In all these countries the main contributor to labour productivity growth is capital accumulation. Unlike previous studies we find no evidence of a poor TFP growth performance for Singapore. Furthermore, we estimate that most of Singapore's labour productivity growth is driven by efficiency change. Estimates of rates of convergence towards the frontier economy that is estimated (not assumed as in other studies) to be the US, are also reported.
2001	The Political Economy of Distress in East Asian Financial InstitutionsThe 1997-1999 East Asian crisis is an interesting case for studying the determinants of distress and closure of financial institutions. Of a sample of 283 financial institutions from Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Thailand, 120 experienced distress, and by July 1999, 38 were closed. We find that traditional, CAMEL-type financial data for 1996 help predict distress and closure. "Connections" - with industrial groups or influential families - increased the likelihood of distress, however, suggesting that supervisors had granted selective prior forbearance from prudential regulations. Since closure was more, not less, likely with connections, the closure processes themselves appear transparent. We also find evidence of "too big to fail" policies.
2001	The learning curve and the yield factor: The case of Korea's semiconductor industryThis article attempts to find out how the Korean economy has grown so rapidly in a short time span of less than 30 years. For that purpose, it focuses on the development of the Korean semiconductor industry-more specifically, the memory-chip segment of the industry-as a case in point. To test the hypothesis that the learning curve effects have been significant in the memory-chip industry, 'yield factor' (the ratio of sellable chips to total chips in a water) in semiconductor production is used as a measure of the learning progression. That is, by tracing how the yield factor for each generation of memory chips has increased. One is able to see how well the Korean chip makers have exploited the learning effects. This article improves the learning-by-doing modelling by introducing a richer set of yield data; and the unit of analysis employed throughout the article is at the firm level, which is not common in the literature dealing with East Asian development as well as the economics of technology, thus enhancing understanding of the industry dynamics.
2001	Patterns of East Asian trade and intra-industry trade in manufacturesThis article examines trade patterns for seven East Asian economies: Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, the Philippines, South Korea and Hong Kong, with partners in other Asian countries and the West. East Asia as a dynamically growing region has gained manufacturing competitiveness as it converges towards income levels in the West. The article focuses mainly, but not exclusively, on intra-industry trade (IIT). Measures of IIT provide clues as to the nature of trade-induced adjustments on the economy. East Asian economies do appear to have gained in manufacturing competitiveness, a trend which is not just confined to unskilled labour-intensive goods.
2001	Taiwan's semiconductor industry: What the state did and did notRelative to Korea, Taiwan's semiconductor sector combines high value-added, low risk, and an innovative mode of virtual integration, which is adapted to the new world of "fabless" and "chipless" operations, away from the older style of integrated device manufacturers. The rise of this owes much to the catalytic government role which overcomes market failures to launch institutions in each of the five stages of the industry's evolution, introducing pre-commercialization research, nurturing industrial clusters, providing venture capital, and spinning off world-class, privately managed firms as well as attracting the interest of traditional business groups, without ever micro-managing the development as bureaucratic state enterprises. The state operates in a manner which is both distinctively different from the practice of Brazil, India, Japan, Korea, or Singapore, and also apparently replicable elsewhere.
2001	Specialization pattern and multistaged growth: Korea and Taiwan comparedThe sustained rapid growth of Korea and Taiwan represent two alternative paths of successful development. The difference between these two paths is reflected in industrial concentration, macroeconomic management, and export mix. During the 1997 crisis, Korea absorbed severe shocks and then scored a quick recovery, while Taiwan proceeded at a more or less constant pace. Taiwan has followed a "usual progression" experienced by Netherlands or Switzerland before; Korea has struck out on a different path, under a more active government policy. Before the current, ongoing reform, the development policy of Korea dates back to President Park, and fits his style of personal management over the economy. It has its own rationale, but also entails greater financial risks. The different roles played by the small and medium enterprises in the two economies provide food for thought in development economics.
2001	Aggregate debt efficiency and debt inertia: Lessons from the Korean economyThis paper investigates the link between aggregate debt efficiency and debt inertia in an highly leveraged business sector like Korea's. The model designs the concepts of liquidity multiplier and debt inertia to argue that they are two major indicators of aggregate debt efficiency. The empirical assessment to the Korean business sector indicates that the aggregate debt efficiency depends mainly on externalities of the debt inertia rather than liquidity creation due to the liquidity multiplier. The economic crisis of Korea in 1997 proves that such a debt efficiency structure must be vulnerable to attack.
2001	Stock and credit market expansion and economic development in emerging markets: Further evidence utilizing cointegration analysisThis paper empirically investigates the relationship between equity and credit market development and economic growth, in a sample of five very important 'emerging' markets. In particular, employing a multivariate time-series methodology to test for long-run trends and causality between variables that proxy for stock market development, credit market development and economic development. The results seem to suggest that equity markets have a role to play only in relatively liberalized economies, like Chile and Mexico. In financially repressed economies, like India, the equity market does not affect real sector growth. Furthermore, the banking crises in the 1980s and 1990s in Chile and Mexico resulted in a negative relation between economic growth and the credit market. In South Korea, equity and credit markets both affect economic growth, but not vice versa. In countries where the nature of the stock market has been speculative, like Taiwan, a negative relationship is detected between equity market development and economic development.
2001	Incorporating trade into the investment development path: A case study of Korea and TaiwanWe suggest that there is some interface between the investment development path (IDP) and the trade development path (TDP)- with both trade and foreign direct investment (FDI) of created asset-intensive products increasing their significance relative to gross national product (GNP) of countries. The proportion of intra-industry trade and FDI to total trade and FDI also increases as an economy develops, particularly so for created asset-intensive products. We have taken the FDI intensity of manufacturing sectors as a proxy for a created asset intensity, and classified it into three categories, viz. above, average and below created asset intensities. Trade and FDI data from the Korean and Taiwan economies between 1968 and 1997 generally support the idea of an integrated TDP and IDP. The growth of trade and FDI tends to be positively correlated with GNP per capita and with the created asset intensity of products.
2001	The suitability of ASEAN for a regional currency arrangementThis paper examines the costs, benefits, preconditions, and implications of an ASEAN regional currency arrangement that is assumed to culminate in a regional currency. Such a proposal would have been regarded as highly radical even a decade ago, and would hav been unlikely to be considered as a serious policy option along with fixed and floating exchange rates. However, recent international financial crises have eroded the credibility of unlateral fixed exchange rates and correspondingly increased interest in 'harder' pegs, such as currency boards, adopting another country's money as the domestic currency, and common currency arrangements. Our choice of ASEAN as the object of our analysis, rather than alternative geographical areas such as-say-East Asia, or Asia as a whole, is primarily determined by the ASEAN policy makers' interest in this possibility. Indeed, ASEAN is a region where some (but by no means all) policy makers are seriously considering the possibility of moving toward a common currency. An earlier version of this paper was prepared at the request of the ASEAN member central banks to contribute to their deliberations. Very recently (May 2000), the ASEAN countries plus China, Korea, and Japan (ASEAN+3) unveiled the 'Chiang Mai Initiative,' whereby they committed themselves to strenthening a network of swap and repurchase agreements among their monetary authorities. The analytical approach used in this paper mght be applied to alternative potential common currency areas, such as ASEAN+3: compared with ASEAN, such a larger region would have the advatage of a greater share of common trade and the disadvantage of greater asymmetrics in the economic shocks affecting its constituent countries.
2001	EU technology transfer to China: The automotive industry as a case studySince the inception of the open-door economic reform under Deng Xiaoping's initiative in 1978, the Chinese economy has in the past twenty years grown at an average annual rate of 9.4 per cent. China's path mirrors in many respects the experiences of Japan and South Korea in their rapid growth periods. A fundamental difference, however, is the fact that the rapid growth in China has been accompanied by increasing inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI). A striking feature of that FDI is the emphasis on technology transfer. This paper analyses the process of technology transfer in the context of learning by doing and summarizes its findings within a comparative developmental context.
2000	The voluntary organizations and democracy in Korea: A civil society perspectiveAfter achieving the dramatic progress of democracy recently, the preconditions of democracy in Korea are a major concern for scholars at home and abroad; These days, therefore, finding factors for successful democracy might be an important agenda for Korea as much as for all less-developed countries. Among many factors conducive to democracy, this study emphasizes the important role played by voluntary associations as mediating and countervailing mechanisms to both the central government and markets. Even though there have been many factors at work in shaping political democracy, Korean experience during last three decades calls attention to the importance of the transition of the resurrection of civil society through an explosion of autonomous interest group expression and activity. The Korean experience supports that the organization of the citizenry is an indispensable condition for the development and maintenance of democracy.
2000	The political economy of defense procurement and acquisition: The case of South Korean ministry of defenseSouth Korea faces growing problems in the area of productivity and competitiveness throughout its economy. These problems are also present in the economies of the armed forces. The purpose of this paper is to present methods of improving the productivity of the South Korean Ministry of Defense's acquisition and procurement processes. It also attempts to mention the South Korean defense environment including defense industry after the Second World War, to point out the problems of Korean Fighter Program (KFP) as a case study, to explain concepts and principles of Total Quality Management, which is a management philosophy and methods, and to provide with the possible solutions of its defense acquisition and procurement represented as KFP.
2000	A commodity chain approach to the development of korean personal computer industry: Resource, opporuntty, and capabilityNothing better captures the development vitality that spur South Korea to resume itself from its economic crisis than the information technology industry. This ultramodern high-technology industry in the area of dynamic random access memory (DRAM) chips, transistor liquid-crystal displays (LCDs), code division multiple access (CDMA) cellular phones, monitors, PCs, and other electrics-electronics have served as the engine of growth in the process of economic recovery. Have these industries grown enough to compete in the global market? Would it be realistic to assume that the development of these industries has been conducive to industrial upgrading in the world stratification system? What domestic and international factors are involved in this notable achievements of this industry?.
2000	A comparative study on Japanese and South Korean media coverage of Foreign and security affairsThe media in Korea and Japan share many common features. Young reporters in Korea today are still trained in the Japanese way; they begin their training by working in and around a police station, what they term as Satsu-mawari. The trainees must stay in the station for one or two months (harikomf) to make themselves accustomed to the police station, and more importantly, to leam the most effective method of abstracting news from day-to-day incidents. After spending two or three years at the police station, these reporters move to the prosecutor's office where they spend another two or three years. Only then are they entitled to work for such sections as politics, economy, culture and sports. In addition, Korean newspapers still use many Japanese words like waked and nawabari. Common terminology used both by the Korean and Japanese media indicate that their working styles are similar. Indeed, reporters in Korea and Japan work under similar systems of reporting not only in terms of their hierarchical order but also in terms of the 'cap(tain) system' in the field.
2000	The economic development models and the confucian market economy model of East AsiaEast Asian countries - South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, and Japan - have attracted the attention of the world thanks to their outstanding economic performances. Economists, political and social scientist have suggested various economic development models to explain the economic success of East Asian countries.
2000	Human development in the era of crisis Northeast Asia in the 1990sThis article seeks to introduce the countries of Northeast Asia1/ and their diverse social and economic conditions in the aftermath of the Asian financial crisis. Geographically, the Northeast Asian subregion is part of the larger area known as the Asian-Pacific region. Some of the economies of this subregion, including the People's Republic of China (hereinafter, China), Taiwan Province of China (hereinafter, Taiwan), Japan, the Republic of Korea (ROK), and Russia, belong to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, while others, such as Mongolia and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), are not related to this regional body. In the last two decades, many APEC members benefited from booming regional investment, trade, and other exchanges, which improved their economies and deepened prosperity.
2000	What is pro-poor growth?This paper attempts to explain the concept of "pro-poor growth", and argues that it represents a major departure from the "trickle-down" phenomenon. It proposes a new indicator-The pro-poor growth index-That measures the degree to which growth can be considered to be pro-poor. The new indicator is used to analyze the nature of economic growth in three countries, namely, Republic of Korea. Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Thailand.
2000	Rigorous speculation: The collapse and revival of the North Korean economyIn this paper, we use cross-entropy estimation techniques to construct the underlying data base for a computable general equilibrium model (CGE) of the North Korean economy, starting from incomplete data, ridden with gross measurement errors. The cross-entropy estimation approach is powerful and flexible, allowing us to make full use of what information we have in whatever form. CGE modeling forces internal consistency. The end product is a model that incorporates fragmentary information in a rigorous way and allows us to examine the implications of a number of alternative scenarios including rehabilitation of flood-affected lands, liberalization of the international trade regime, and military demobilization. North Korea has been experiencing a famine. Its economy is characterized by systemic distortions and comparative disadvantage in the production of grains. As a consequence, the potential payoffs to economy-wide reforms, even defined narrowly in terms of domestic food availability, dwarf more targeted attempts to raise agricultural productivity. To many, this finding-that a famine might be better addressed by the export of manufactures than the recovery of flood-damaged lands-is a striking and counterintuitive result. Moreover, we find that if reforms were to be undertaken, the country could generate a significant additional 'peace dividend' by partially demobilizing its enormous military. (C) 2000 Institute for International Economics. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2000	The effects of structural change and economic liberalisation on gender wage differentials in South Korea and TaiwanThis paper investigates the sources of divergent trends in gender wage differentials in two important newly industrialised economies (NIEs), South Korean and Taiwan. As these economies have entered the 'post-industrial' phase of development, gender wage differentials in Taiwan's manufacturing sector have widened, while in Korea they have narrowed. Decomposition analysis is used to broadly identify sources of change in gender wage differentials. Multivariate regression analysis is relied on to differentiate the impact on the gender wage gap of (1) macro-level policies, (2) institutional factors, and (3) shifts in labour demand and supply. In addition to the predictable effects of several standard supply-side variables, in Taiwan physical capital mobility is found to have contributed to a wider gender earnings gap. Women's greater concentration in industries where capital is mobile may explain this result. The effect of capital mobility in Korea appears to differ, which may be due to the dissimilar character of outward FDI from that country.
2000	Transition of latecomer firms from technology users to technology generators: Korean semiconductor firmsIn this paper we investigate the evolution of technological capabilities of Korean semiconductor firms. First, we focus on the notion of rate and direction of technological building based upon technological using and generating capabilities. The rate was measured by development time gap and technological activities, such as patenting and number of publications. In the second part we identify three aspects of directions of the technological building process using patent content analysis, specific technological characteristics of semiconductor technologies and product portfolios. We argue that Korean semiconductor firms have deepened their technological capabilities and the measurement of this process is a key contribution of this paper. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2000	Should China be promoting large-scale enterprises and enterprise groups?In light of the perceived failure of enterprise groups in Japan and South Korea, various criticisms have been made of China's industrial reforms. This paper argues that the force of these criticisms has been exaggerated. In conjunction with the nonstate sector, large-scale enterprises have been an important engine for growth in China over a sustained period. The Asian crisis is often seen as a manifestation of the failure of relational-based governance, but the dismal record of small-scale industries in Central Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union suggests it is doubtful that rapid privatization and down-sizing would have given better results in China. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2000	A global interpretation of the rise of the East Asian food import complexThe last quarter century explosion of consumer affluence in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and China, accompanied a new phase in the organization of the global food economy. It also conditioned the increasingly speculative capital investments in the region. This paper argues that the restructuring of production and consumption relations involved a movement away from the US-centered bilateral food surplus regime, and toward a multilateral food regime based in WTO-led agricultural liberalization, and the corporate restructuring of agriculture. The East Asian food import complex advances the neoliberal project of global free trade, spawning agro-export zones throughout Southeast Asia. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2000	Taiwan's distorted democracy in comparative perspectiveMany scholars have lauded Taiwan's successful democratization as a 'political miracle,' parallel to its well-known 'economic miracle' of the 1960s and 1970s. This paper argues, however, that the fulfillment of formal, procedural conditions of democracy conceals the development of a distorted democracy in Taiwan. An iron rectangle of the state, the ruling party, local factions, and conglomerates have gradually dominated Taiwan's political economy at the expense of distributional equality and economic efficiency. In addition to the analysis of these four institutions, this paper extends the neo-institutional analysis to a comparison with the cases of Korea and Japan. These cross-country comparisons disclose the gradual convergence of the Taiwanese case with the Korean and Japanese models.
2000	The impact of financial and fiscal variables on economic growth: the case of India and KoreaThis paper applies a simple macroeconomic model developed by Green and Murinde (1993) to Korea and India and studies the potency of fiscal and financial policies. The fiscal variables are real government spending, the income tax rate, and the export tax rate; while financial policy variables are the official interest rate, loans from commercial banks, foreign reserves or the exchange rate and foreign capital inflows. Dummies for political instability and financial reforms specific to the two countries are also included. We find that while government expenditure, income taxes and foreign capital inflow have the same effects in the two countries, interest rates, money supply, foreign reserves and financial liberalization have different effects, bringing out the differences in the two economies, [E63, 011, 053]. ⓒ 2000, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
2000	Democratization and environmentalism: South Korea and Taiwan in comparative perspectiveFocusing on the emergence and evolution of environmentalism in South Korea and Taiwan since the mid-1980s, this paper analyzes the relationship between democratic consolidation and environmental politics. In both countries, an environmental movement arose after a series of environmental disasters and expanded through the effective politicization of environmental issues by the opposition parties. The general relationship between environmental groups and political parties differs significantly in the two countries compared. In South Korea, environmental groups have maintained relative autonomy from political society, forging only tactical alignments with opposition parties. In Taiwan, the environmental movement from its inception has been closely affiliated with and depended upon the dissident movement. Additionally, in terms of the relationship between the environmental movement and the state, South Korea represents a pattern of "congruent engagement" whereas Taiwan stands for a "conflictual engagement." These differences in the development of environmentalism are closely related to the different modes of democratic transition in the two countries. In South Korea, the intensive "politics of protest" by civil society groups resulted in drastic changes in the ruling bloc. In Taiwan, elite-led and pacted transition largely enabled the ruling regime to maintain its control of society at large. As a result, in South Korea environmentalism emerged as a "new social movement" after the transition, whereas in Taiwan, it served as an essential component of the pro-democracy movement against the KMT government.
2000	Engine of export-oriented catching-up: small firmsBig conglomerates dominate the Korean economic as do small firms the Taiwan economy. I characterize Korea as a relatively low-trust society with a pro-chaebol policy bias, and Taiwan as a relatively high-trust society with an anti-big-conglomerate policy bias. I content that the differences between Korea and Taiwan in size structure of firms reflect the divergent responses of entrepreneurs to different, "semi-permanent" socio-political conditions that determine the costs of market transactions among firms. It may be desirable to change the size structure of firms, but I maintain that the possibility of actual change in the size structure is rather limited. [F14, L11]. ⓒ 2000, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
2000	Making ethical judgements: A cross-cultural management studyThis article reports the results of a cross-cultural empirical study across seven countries which investigates the differences in the way managers structure their ethical judgements regarding the loyalty of a corporation to its employees, the loyalty of employees to the corporation, and the loyalty of employees towards their co-workers. Managers' ethical judgements from the East Asian 'tiger' countries of Japan, Korea and Hong Kong are compared with those from the 'Anglo' countries of the United States and Australia, and with those from the 'transitional' countries of Asiatic Russia and Poland. An adapted version of the well documented Reidenbach-Robin instrument is used, and its cross-cultural application investigated. As hypothesized, cross-cultural differences were indicated for both the structure and content of managers' ethical judgements, which have important implications for the way organizations are effectively managed both nationally, regionally and internationally. Weaknesses in the a priori constructs of the research instrument were also indicated, and recommendations made for future development of methodology in this area. ⓒ 2000 By John Wiley & Sons (Asia) Ltd.
2000	A Growth Model of "miracle" in KoreaHigh economic performance in East Asia has motivated arguments on the sources of economic growth, including the role of the government to encourage more investment than would have been allocated by market forces. The purpose of this paper is to quantitatively investigate whether or not macroeconomic investment behavior of a growing economy can be explained by market forces. Focusing on Korea during the period 1960-90, a stochastic growth model with production is estimated with a numerical solution to approximate the optimal investment behavior during the course of economic development. The estimation result suggests that market forces do not explain the rise in investment rates in the 1960s and 1970s, while investment behavior in the 1980s coincides with optimizing investment behavior. ⓒ 2000 Society for Policy Modeling.Published by Elsevier Science Inc.
2000	Falling labor income inequality in Korea's economic growth: Patterns and underlying causesOver the last twenty-five years, the economy of the Republic of Korea achieved a remarkable growth rate of 7 percent per year in real per capita income, causing it to be labeled, justifiably, as a "miracle economy." This exceptional economic growth has beenpp accompanied by an even more exceptional fall in labor income inequality. Using a newly-developed methodology, we use data from Korea's Occupational Wage Surveys to quantify the importance of various factors that have contributed to the fall in labor income inequality in Korea. We find the most important factors explaining the level of income inequality are job tenure, gender, years of education, and occupation, while those that are most important in explaining the change in income inequality are years of education, industry, occupation, and potential experience.
2000	Globalization and inter-city cooperation in Northeast AsiaGlobalization has increased the role of a country's capital city as an agent of cross-national cooperation. The arduous task of solving urban problems can no longer be handled by a single city or viewed as the domestic affair of a nation-state that cannot be interfered by others. In Northeast Asia, the three capital city governments of Beijing, Seoul, and Tokyo have taken steps to cooperate among themselves through promoting the exchange of capital, labor, information, and technology. This study reviews the BESETO (Beijing-Seoul-Tokyo) cooperative scheme and considers it the beginning of a cooperative model, which can ideally promote regional integration as well. It argues that the idea of BESETO is suited for the era of global and regional cooperation, which demands a higher degree of inter-city interdependency and complementarity among major urban centers in the region. The article also touches on the domestic and international factors that have contributed to the slow development of the BESETO scheme.
2000	Globalization and the global city: Meeting the challenges of the twenty-first centuryThis article considers the impact of globalization on the development of a nation-state's economic competitiveness in the twenty-first century. It argues that cities must enhance their governing capacity, i.e., adjust their economic bases, administrative structures and business cultures to suit the needs of transnational corporations. Using South Korea as a case study, the article makes a case for further democratization of political power and decentralization of economic power. The article also suggests a set of strategies for cities to be viable in the globalizing world economy.
2000	Converging European transitionsThis paper looks at convergence, and therefore reflects developments in emerging markets from the perspective of the growing 'club' of mature democracies. The emphasis, however, is on one specific manifestation of the process, involving the enlargement of the EU by ten countries in transition henceforth called 'applicants'. Section 2 discusses EU enlargement as part of the global environment, including the evidence for policy convergence worldwide. Evidence on the role of property rights and open markets is presented, so as to motivate the 'virtuous cycle' between globalisation and governance. For example, the effect on growth and investment is seen to depend on the progress of transition rather than on geographical proximity to the EU. Moreover, the values behind European integration are essentially the same as the requirements for sustained growth and development in emerging markets. Section 3 specifies the structural dimensions of transition in the form of principle of good government at the public and corporate levels, reflecting the standards found in mature democracies. Corruption perceptions and credit ratings are presented as indicators of appropriate responses to the twin challenges of globalisation and governance in ways that are applicable more broadly to emerging markets. Section 4 presents a macroeconomic framework for policy sustainability - a guide for the credibility of fiscal adjustment which has been identified as one of the roots of convergence. The timing of a convergence programme to macroeconomic stability is deduced from a policy matrix and the effects of the financial crisis in emerging markets observed in 1997-99 are brought in. The applicants are then ranked in terms of their progress in opening markets and in improving governance. While the scores are higher on the latter than on the former, they are hardly comparable. The results should only suggest that few applicants are in the 'virtuous cycle', a result that would apply to a control group including mature democracies and emerging markets such as Korea, Portugal or Turkey who also do not score, unlike Greece or Mexico who do. Section 5 concludes.
2000	The political economy of the Korean financial crisisMuch attention has been paid to the economics of the Asian financial crisis, but less to its politics. In this article we examine two clusters of domestic political factors that contributed to Korea's difficulties. First, a combination of selective liberalization with close government-bank-business relations contributed to the investment boom and excessive leveraging that made the Korean economy vulnerable to external shocks. Second, we examine how politically generated uncertainty in an election year, compounded by features of the party system, resulted in a delayed response to problems in the financial sector and in dealing with the IMF. These delays, in turn, contributed to the length and depth of the crisis.
2000	Technological maturity and development without research: The challenge for Malaysian manufacturingPropelled largely by direct investment via multinationals, Malaysia's manufacturing sector has grown rapidly and is changing its output-mix. In 1992, the share of high-tech products in Malaysian manufacturing exceeded that of Japan, Korea or Taiwan. However, this 'maturity' was acquired without a strong research base. This article provides a framework which looks at the role of research and development (R and D) in conferring technological maturity and assesses the progress Malaysian manufacturing has made in this regard. The authors find that while multinationals have transferred many aspects of production, they have been slow in transferring R and D expertise. Neither has indigenous innovation filled this gap. Consequently, the long-term sustainability of the industrial transformation process in Malaysia is in jeopardy. The article concludes with suggestions for corrective policies.
2000	The International Finance Corporation and the emerging market funds industryLinking the world's core equity markets with semi-peripheral and peripheral equity markets has been a fundamentally different process from linking core markets with each other. International financial institutions have played a larger role in core-periphery equity market integration, and issues of corporate governance assume greater importance in the core-periphery cases. Illustrating these differences, this article considers the creation of the Korea fund, one of the early country funds in an emerging market promoted by the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The case shows that increasingly sophisticated financial instruments, like country funds, alter the structure of the international financial system in such a way as to reposition governments in developing market economies with respect to their domestic financial systems; allow for some international capital inflows without loss of corporate control; and make diversification possible for a transnational class of investors. Moreover, the article proposes that international financial institutions like the IFC can alter the structural context of a particular market within which various financial actors later strike deals. In the light of the process of coalition building elaborated here, the article reserves a role for considerations of both multilateralism and a state's position in the world system in a body of literature heavily concentrated on state-level political activity.
2000	Productivity and turnover in the export market: Micro-level evidence from the Republic of Korea and Taiwan (China)Widespread empirical evidence indicates that exporting producers have higher productivity than nonexporters, although the reasons why are unclear. Some analysts argue that exporters acquire knowledge of new production methods, inputs, and product designs from their international contacts, and with this knowledge they achieve higher productivity than their more insulated domestic counterparts. Others argue that the higher productivity of exporters reflects the self-selection of more efficient producers into a highly competitive export market. This article analyzes the link between a producer's total factor productivity and its decision to participate in the export market, using manufacturing data from the Republic of Korea and Taiwan (China). Differences are found between these two economies in the importance of selection and learning. In Taiwan (China) transitions of plants into and out of the export market reflect systematic variations in productivity as predicted by self-selection models. In Korea there are no significant changes in productivity following entry or exit from the export market that are consistent with learning from exporting. A comparison of the two economies suggests that in Korea factors other than production efficiency are more prominent determinants of the export decision. ⓒ Oxford University Press 2001.
2000	The role of foreign capital in domestic manufacturing productivity: Empirical evidence from Asian economiesThe paper empirically examines the relative contribution of foreign and domestic machinery and equipment on manufacturing productivity in seven Asian economies. A Cobb-Douglas production function is used to test whether foreign machinery is more productive than domestic machinery. The study is based on a pooled cross-sectional time-series model, including seven countries - Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, Indonesia, the Philippines and India - for the years 1975 to 1990. The results support the hypothesis that a country's stage of development, skill-level of its labour force, and the technology embodied in capital play a crucial role in determining the relative impact of foreign and domestic capital on manufacturing productivity.
2000	Testing export exogeneity in Taiwan: Further evidenceExport-promotion policies have been widely credited for fostering economic growth in the four 'Asian Tigers' of Hong Kong, South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. In their well-known comparative study of economic growth and public policy in East Asia, the World Bank (1993) argued that other developing countries can (and perhaps should) emulate East Asia's success. The World Bank remarked, 'The export-push strategy appears to hold great promise for other developing economies,' (p.25). In an interesting recent paper, Kwan, Cotsomitis and Kwok (1996) - thereafter, KCK - have subjected the above contention to empirical testing in the case of Taiwan using the exogeneity procedure proposed by Engle and Hendry (1993). For the annual sample period 1953-1988, KCK reported results supportive of the implication of the export-led growth (ELG) hypothesis that exports in Taiwan are weakly exogenous which justifies the use of single equation models for studying the impact of exports of economic growth. However, KCK also claimed that their results are at odds with the ELG hypothesis since they reject super-exogeneity of exports. If valid, these results cast some doubts on the ability of export promotion policies to spur economic growth in Taiwan. The purpose of this paper is to address two major problems in KCK's work. Correcting for these flaws, the empirical results obtained reject KCK's notion and show that exports in Taiwan are both weakly and superoxogenous to output.
2000	Technology development of korea’s electronics industry: Learning from multinational enterprises through oemThis article analyses the technology development efforts of Korea’s electronics industry (the country largest exporter). It asks how the Korean electronics industry was able to develop, both in terms of production and technology, despite low inflows of licensing and foreign direct investments. The article argues that the key to its spectacular growth has been through its participation and learning from an inter-firm arrangement called original equipment manufacturing arrangement (OEM). A number of firm-level case studies on the Korean electronics industry support this argument. Overall, this article argues that contrary to many previous studies, the role of multinational enterprises has been significant in the development of Korea’s electronics industry, and that they have been acting as a ‘technological tutor’ for Korea through OEM. ⓒ 2000 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
2000	What difference a crisis? Continuity and change in South Korea's foreign economic policyThis paper examines pre-crisis and post-crisis developments in Korea's foreign economic policy (FEP). In undertaking this exercise, it constructs a framework of FEP analysis within which these developments are studied. Korea's own 1997-8 financial crisis heightened pressures upon the country to introduce far-reaching policy reforms and structural economic adjustment. This pressure was partly formalized by the terms and conditions imposed by the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) 'bailout' programme. These and other crisis-related pressures were expected to make a profound impact on the structure, conduct and process of Korean FEP, which up to the crisis had been primarily orientated by neo-mercantilist principles. However, this paper argues that various sources of resistance pertaining to certain structural economic and socio-cultural factors will make these principles more resilient than commonly thought. Furthermore, the relative significance of continuity over change in Korea's FEP is contended generally. It is also argued that wider lessons can be drawn here, particularly relating to the resilience of the developmental state.
2000	An empirical examination of the disaggregated import demand of Korea - The case of information technology productsThis article presents an empirical analysis of the import demand for certain information technology products in Korea. These products have been recognized as essential for further economic growth in Korea, as the Korean government aims to transform the economy into one based on information technology. The unrestricted error correction model is used to derive the long run price and income elasticities of import demand, considering the small sample size. The price elasticities are revealed to be quite high in all cases, implying that lowering of the tariff rates would increase the import of those products substantially. ⓒ 2000 Elsevier Science Inc.
1999	The financial crisis in Southeast Asia and South Korea: Issues of political economyForeign capital began a mass exodus from East Asia in the summer of 1997. A run on currencies and stock markets started in Thailand and spread throughout Southeast Asia, then on to South Korea before year-end. Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea had high ratios of foreign debt to local GDP and lacked sufficient reserves to meet short-term foreign exchange obligations. All required assistance from the International Monetary Fund which imposed a long list of reforms. However, there is a perception that the IMF has not been effective in the Asian Crisis so far. Pinpointing and effecting some control over the actual forces at work, including politics and other nonmarket factors that contributed substantially to the crisis, will not be easy. Obviously, South Korea and Southeast Asian countries need to restore confidence through reform of their financial institutions and practices, but all Asians still tend to do things in their own characteristic manner. Asian capitalism has not been entirely discredited and should be seen as part of the solution rather than the problem in bringing about financial development and change.
1999	National governance in South Korea and developing new state-business relations in the post crisis ERAThis paper is concerned with the political and economic reforms in Korea that have been implemented after the outbreak of the Asian crisis, and the newly emerging pattern of the social, political and economic governance in Korea. It will address the following questions in turn: ? Why did Asian economies suddenly fail in 1997? ? If the system was a major cause of the crisis, what aspects of the system were deficient? ? What were critical elements of old governance system? ? What are major reform measures that will reshape the governance system? ? What would be the shape of new governance system that will emerge in the postcrisis era? Will there be a new relationship between the state and big business?.
1999	Korean economic reforms after 1997 financial crisisAfter the extremes of recession in 1998 caused by the Korean financial crisis and last year's surprisingly strong rebound, growth conditions for the Korean economy has been set to normalize in 2000. In this paper four major sectors' economic reform, such as financial, corporate, labor, and public sector, undertaken by D. J. Kim government are evaluated. General direction of the reform after financial crisis seems adequate. However, a clear-cut perspective on the government's role is needed to successfully implement the proposed reforms. Korea is drawing invaluable lessons from the last two years' turmoil. It is absolutely vital to construct and manage a sound economic system in tune with liberalization and globalization.
1999	Asian nies in the region's economic recovery and the options for South Korea: The potentials for Japan-Korea FTAThe purpose of this paper is to discuss the options for Korea's mid-term economic recovery from the financial crisis based on regional cooperation, especially through a Japan-Korea FTA and related possible changes. First, the paper will examine reform efforts undertaken by other MEs after the financial crisis, with a clear focus on intraregional division of labor. The second part will explore what strategies ROK will be able to pursue if she wishes to establish competitive advantage like other NEs in the region. The Japan-Korea FTA (JKFTA here) will be proposed as one option with potential dynamic gains for ROK's development. Thirdly, the strategic character of JKFTA to maximize mutual advantage will be discussed with some political implications.
1999	Patterns of corruption and development in East AsiaThis article focuses on the experiences of South Korea and the Philippines and examines the relationship of corruption to political and economic development. It argues that corruption is a manifestation of specific sets of state-society relations, political systems, development trajectories and types of external linkages. Corruption in these contexts should not be seen as pathological phenomena but as deeply integrated into the particular path of political and economic development. The article further identifies the context and scope for reform.
1999	IMF-Supported programs in Indonesia, Korea, and Thailand: A preliminary assessmentThe Asian crisis differs from previous crises in key respects, and it may indicate fault lines in an increasingly integrated global economic and financial system. Unlike the typical case in which the IMF's assistance is requested, these crises did not result mainly from the monetization of fiscal imbalances and only in Thailand were there substantial external current account imbalances. Instead, they were rooted mainly in financial sector fragilities, stemming in part from weaknesses in governance in the corporate, financial, and government sectors, which made these economies increasingly vulnerable to changes in market sentiment, a deteriorating external situation, and contagion. This paper represents the first systematic review within the IMF of the policy response to the crisis, and possible lessons for future practice. Given the fact that events are still unfolding and programs are still in the process of revision, it will necessarily be selective in the questions it addresses and provisional in the answers it provides. The study covers the period through October 1998. The paper also takes a narrow approach in the countries examined: it focuses primarily on events in Indonesia, Korea, and Thailand even though further useful lessons might be drawn by examining other countries in the region-notably Malaysia and the Philippines-in which many of the same forces were at work. Malaysia is excluded because it did not have an IMF-supported program, the Philippines (although it has had a program) because its recent history was quite different from the other crisis countries. Section II briefly reviews the origins of the Asian financial crisis in financial sector fragilities-notably the large short-term foreign currency debt of domestic financial institutions and corporations, together with inflated domestic asset prices and deteriorating loan quality-that made these economies vulnerable to a deteriorating external situation and market contagion, particularly given the volatility of short-term capital flows in international markets. The monetization of fiscal imbalances and evident exchange rate misalignments, prevalent in many countries that seek IMF support, played a lesser role, except in Thailand. The basic strategy of the programs formulated to address the crisis are discussed in Section III. Section IV addresses issues related to program financing and market reactions. Section V discusses the macroeconomic developments associated with the crisis, notably the deep recessions related to massive current account adjustments. Section VI discusses monetary policy, which sought to balance the goal of preventing a spiral of exchange rate depreciation and inflation against concerns that excessive monetary tightening could severely weaken economic activity. Fiscal policies are examined in Section VII. The initial programs, predicated on the assumption that the slowdown in growth would be modest, planned some fiscal adjustment to offset a weakening of fiscal positions, support external adjustment without an excessive squeeze on the private sector's financing, and make room for the costs of bank restructuring and social safety nets. If these deficit targets had been implemented under the macroeconomic conditions that emerged, they would have implied an excessively contractionary policy. Section VIII examines the strategy of structural reform in the programs, which were intended to address the structural weaknesses underlying the crisis and create the basis for a return to sustainable growth.
1999	Financial system and economic growth: The Korean experienceThis paper examines the relationship between the development of financial systems and economic growth using Korea as a case study. In particular, we focus on the relative development of financial intermediaries and capital markets, and their impact on the portfolio behavior of the household and business sectors. Causality and non-nested model selection tests show that financial development in general leads economic growth and that financial intermediaries are more important than capital markets in this relationship.
1999	Initial conditions and miraculous growth: Why is South East Asia different from Taiwan and South Korea?The paper argues that the economies of East and South East Asia are a very diverse group, only some of which have grown rapidly over the past three decades. The fast-growing economies of South East Asia, especially Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia are in a number of important respects different from the fast-growing economies of North East Asia, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. The different colonial legacies have had important consequences for educational progress and the distribution of income and wealth. Government intervention has tended to be less growth-promoting and more oriented to goals such as inter-ethnic redistribution of wealth. The implications of these differences for future economic growth in South East Asia are discussed.
1999	Entrepreneurial development in late industrialization: A comparative analysisThe paper examines the differences in entrepreneurial responses that arise from the different historical backgrounds and transactional efficiency of the market. Beginning from a brief survey of the comparative study of early privatization policies and industrial organizations between Korea and Taiwan, we examine Formation of entrepreneurship in a general equilibrium framework with fixed set-up costs. We show that as the fixed set-up costs increase, the number of active entrepreneurs decreases, while the remaining risk-neutral entrepreneurs adopt riskier technologies and increase the expected level of employment. By examining industry dynamics, we explain why the growth pattern of some newly industrializing economies like Korea shows increasing volatility over the sustained period of time. ⓒ 1999, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
1999	The coming decade of change on the Korean peninsula: Implications for Northeast Asia and the United StatesThe next decade on the Korean peninsula will be one of dramatic change. With a nearly nonexistent economy and its people facing severe famine, the DPRK has no choice but to move away from its self-reliance policies towards another course of action-most likely leading to reunification of the peninsula. However it plays out, the changes in Korea will have important regional implications and impact U.S. military presence in Northeast Asia. Policy makers must formulate plans now for U.S. forces in the region during, and after, Korean reunification. Despite being in shambles internally, North Korea remains a hermit kingdom standing steadfastly against the tides of change and pressures from the outside world to become part of the international community. The Korean peninsula remains a potential, and very likely, international flashpoint as no formal peace treaty was signed after the Korean War-only an armistice agreement keeps the peninsula in a fragile military stalemate. With a badly broken economy, its people continuing to face famine, the threat to resume its nuclear program, and the recent missile firings over Japan, North Korea will likely be an international flashpoint sooner rather than later.
1999	The China Model of Korean reunificationLike Germany's reunification, essentially the annexation of East Germany by West Germany, Korean reunification looms as most likely, ultimately and largely entailing South Korea's annexation of North Korea. The awesome cost borne by West Germany for reunification has been instructive to South Korea, particularly in recognition that the material and ideological gaps between North and South Korea are far greater than those which existed between East and West Germany. A possible solution to the negative implications of cataclysmic reunification may rest in gradual reunification of the Koreas, with an interim industrialization of North Korea by South Korea, based on the model of the economic development zones in southeastern China; hence, the 'China Model.' In such a scenario the investors in North Korea's gradual industrialization would be (primarily) the huge conglomerate South Korean corporations (chaebol) which seek cheaper labor pools abroad. Investment by such corporations, in cooperation with the South Korean government, and possibly supplemented by western and Japanese capital investment, would presumably raise levels of productivity and the standard of living in the economically and agriculturally ravished North. The North-South gaps would thus be gradually reduced as would the financial and other burdens South Korea would otherwise have to bear for cataclysmic reunification.
1999	Asia's contagious financial crisis and its impact on KoreaAsian countries have, from 1965 to the early 1990s, shown remarkable growth performance. The recent financial crisis, however, has brought disastrous effects on these growing economies. The region has been suffering from high inflation, massive unemployment, and large drops in growth rates. The major cause of the crisis can be attributed to the international financial markets. International financial institutions lent without serious examination of the borrowers' ability to repay. In this regard, the ratings agencies were also responsible for the worsening of the crisis. Their ratings did not give correct signals to the lenders. The borrowers' speculative activities and their subsequent failures were a direct cause that led to the crisis. A second cause lies in the structural problems in these economies. There are still covert dealings between government officials and businesses, and these economies lack transparency. These deficiencies greatly distort allocation of resources in the economies. There should be a global risk-management system to prevent such a crisis from happening again. This risk-management system would give an early warning signal. Creditors should coordinate their efforts to resolve the liquidity crisis in the Asian countries. Coordinated loans and partial forgiving of debts will be helpful to both debtors and creditors. ⓒ 1999 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
1999	Solidarity versus neoliberalism: Union regional and interregional organization in Europe and AsiaThe broadening of the economic integration and liberalization agenda through the post-Maastricht European Union (EU) and Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) processes has given impetus to regional organization of unions, and in some cases to a more critical analysis of the impacts of liberalization. However, the responses of unions in Europe and East Asia are shaped by their very different historical and economic contexts. Union responses take place at two levels: the lobbying of governments by union peak bodies; and the ability of their affiliates, through both industry-based and national centres, to mobilize their members in collective action. Effective collective action also requires alliances with other social forces. The paper examines the potential for effective transnational labour solidarity networks and actions both within regional contexts and across regions. This is done through analysis of recent case studies of solidarity actions within and between both regions. In the EU context the case studies examine the response to cuts in public expenditure resulting from moves to European Monetary Union and the closure of the Renault plant in Vilvoorde, Belgium. In the APEC context the case studies deal with recent campaigns on labour law changes and privatization by independent unions in South Korea and the Philippines. These examples demonstrate the potential for further development of interregional solidarity, especially through regional union networks based on sectors or industries and campaigns around multinational corporations operating in both Europe and Asia.
1999	Inadequate policy or operational failure? The potential crisis of the Korean National Pension ProgrammeThe Korean National Pension Programme is one of the main pillars of the Korean welfare state. From its introduction in 1988, the Programme had come to include 26.8 per cent of the economically active population and had accumulated a pension fund equal to 24 per cent of government expenditure by 1994. Behind such a promising facade, the Korean National Pension Programme is likely to face financial crisis without a major reform. This paper seeks to answer the question as to whether the crisis will arise due to inadequate policy design or to operational failure. The latter cause may require privatizing the Pension Fund in order to operate more efficiently, while the former one would demand rectifying the defects of policy design. This study argues that the crisis is strongly related to inadequate policy design, which promises generous pensions and at the same time requires only a small amount in contributions; although there have also been operational inefficiencies in running the programme. It also argues that inadequacy in policy design stemmed from developmentalism embedded in the Korean welfare state, which regards the National Pension Programme mainly as a measure for mobilizing cheap capital. In conclusion, this paper argues that the Korean welfare state, created in the era of economic development, is transient in nature and that it needs a major reform not only to contain the cost but also to meet the growing demand for social welfare.
1999	Competition effects of import discipline in KoreaWhether an increase in foreign competition, in an imperfectly competitive market structure, really provides an additional avenue of enforcement of more competitive market behaviour and increases the efficiency of resource allocation provides an important policy implication for competition policy. This paper, using the two-stage least-squares method based on 77 KSIC four-digit level of Korean manufacturing data, provides evidence that import discipline hypothesis is applicable in a small open developing economy. In particular, the constraint by foreign competition on domestic firms' monopoly power will be greater, the greater the liberalization of trade in Korean manufacturing. Meanwhile, the paper also investigates economic factors that affected industry concentration. These results imply that an increase of foreign competition is essential to implement competition policy, particularly in a highly concentrated industry. The other implication for public policy is that financial subsidies for selected industries and firms as a development policy accelerate concentration of market structure and, coupled with protection, distort efficiency in resource allocation.
1999	The impact of the US and Japanese economies on Korea and Malaysia after the Plaza AccordThis paper investigates the influence of the US and Japanese macroeconomic shocks on output in Korea and Malaysia before and after the Plaza Accord. This is done by using a cointegration/error-correction model in seven variables, consisting of world oil price, US and Japanese outputs and money supplies, domestic money and domestic output. Our results show that foreign shocks account for a higher proportion of output variability in Korea and Malaysia after the Plaza Accord. An interesting finding is that the influence of the US economy on Korea and Malaysia has declined while the Japanese influence has increased.
1999	Are the Kaldor-Verdoorn laws applicable in the newly industrializing countries?The Kaldor-Verdoorn 'laws,' the focus of this work, are a set of stylized facts which attempt to describe growth in an economy. This paper tests these stylized facts using macroeconomic data from newly industrializing countries. Results show that high rates of growth of manufacturing do not translate to high productivity rates in Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand, and Mauritius, but they do so in South Korea. A negative relation exists for Malaysia. This work questions the operation of Kaldor's laws in the context of globalization and suggests a revision of the laws.
1999	Modelling money demand in open economies: The case of selected Asian countriesWhile early work on money demand estimation focused primarily on the importance of domestic variables, many studies in later years have suggested that foreign variables also influence the domestic demand for money in an open economy. With the rapid financial market liberalization in some of the Asian economies in the last couple of decades, open economy factors have become very important in the determination of money demand. Therefore, this paper aims to ascertain the degree to which foreign opportunity cost variables influence money demand in the Philippines, Singapore and South Korea. Cointegration analysis is performed and an error correction model estimated using quarterly time-series data. The empirical results support the inclusion of foreign opportunity cost variables in the money demand function.
1999	Uneven crises: Institutional foundations of East Asian economic turmoilWhile rejecting arguments that locate the blame for the East Asian economic crisis in simplistic notions of 'crony capitalism', this paper supplements analyses which have focused on the role of international finance capital. It does so by suggesting that there were real internal causes of the crisis in the countries most affected and that these were intimately associated with asymmetrical state institutional capacities to mediate between the domestic and international economies. Nothing that the symptoms of crisis in Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and Hong Kong were quite different from those in Korea, the paper suggests that these differences were not coincidental. Rather they are traceable to these asymmetric state capacities. Inter alia, the paper explores the role of Overseas Chinese conglomerates and state actors in the development of structurally weak economies in the Southeast Asian countries, and asks whether the 'fundamentals' of the real economies in question (including Korea) were indeed robust, as some commentators have argued. Analysing recent data on innovation and terms of trade, the paper answers in the negative. Throughout, the paper emphasizes the substantial institutional differences between the East Asian crisis countries so as to combat accounts - be they orthodox or radical - which advance monadic explanations for the turmoil. In so doing it insists that part of the explanation of why the crisis emerged in Thailand, Indonesia, Korea, etc., must involve an appreciation of why it has not (or at least not yet) emerged in Taiwan and Singapore. The paper, however, is not merely an account of the differing internal causes of the crisis. Ultimately it is a discourse on the uneven presence and differing forms of 'developmental states' in the region, and on their past, present and future possibilities for effective economic governance.
1999	Informal credit markets and the transmission of monetary policy: Evidence from South KoreaThis paper is an empirical investigation of the transmission of monetary policy in South Korea. It combines modern mainstream macroeconomics with aspects of a developing economy with financial dualism through a simple IS-LM type model that explicitly incorporates an informal credit market. Vector autoregression analysis, with both semistructural and structural identifications, confirms the importance of a credit variable as a policy tool. The results show direct credit allocation by the central bank had a significant impact on output, prices, and the interest rate in the informal sector. Previous theoretical and empirical findings of 'stagflationary' effects of monetary policy are refuted.
1999	Long-run implications of neoclassical growth models: Empirical evidence from Australia, New Zealand, South Korea and TaiwanLong-run implications of the one-factor neoclassical growth models are tested by using data from Australia, New Zealand, South Korea and Taiwan. Testable propositions about the long-run relations between log of real output, consumption, and investment are investigated using unit root tests and cointegration analysis. Also, common trends analysis is used to identify the sources of the permanent shocks driving the common long-run trend. Further, variance decomposition is used to examine the extent to which innovations to the common trend component are able to explain short-run fluctuations in the data. Empirical results provide limited support for the neoclassical models. In addition to productivity shocks, permanent innovations to investment are found to be important components of the long-run stochastic trend governing the dynamic behaviour of real output, consumption and investment. Variance decomposition results suggest that although innovations to common trend components are important, this is unable to explain a substantial fraction of short-run fluctuations in the data.
1999	Combinative capabilities and organizational learning in latecomer firms: The case of the Korean semiconductor industryThe emergence of firms from East Asian countries in advanced high-technology sectors such as semiconductors, is one of the striking features of world business developments over the course of the past decade. Explanations for the successes of such firms are commonly given in terms of transient, external or contingent factors, such as low costs or government subsides or just plain luck. In this paper an alternative account is given, based on resource leverage and organizational learning undertaken by the latecomer firms themselves. The paper develops a model of technological learning by latecomer firms, and then demonstrates its applicability in the case of the creation of a semiconductor industry in Korea. Data is presented to support the proposition that it is indeed single-loop and double-loop organizational learning that underpins these firms' successful entry strategies. This approach sheds light on the strategies to be followed by firms in advanced countries when they seek to enter knowledge-intensive, high-technology sectors. ⓒ 1999 Elsevier Science Inc.
1998	South Korea's foreign economic policy: New parameters and pressures examinedThis paper considers the various challenges and pressures that confront Korea in developing its future foreign economic policy (FEP). It is set against the context of the country's recent financial problems but also examines previous economic developments in the Korean economy, how the parameters of FEP can be defined, the impact of globalisation and systemic change in the world economy, the tension between domestic and international forces in the crucible of FEP-making and offers a theoretical perspective to this latter discussion. Finally, the future direction of Korea's FEP is considered with particular reference to issues of economic diplomacy, diversification and the 'advocacy' principle.
1998	Currency crisis in Korea: How was it aggravated?This paper documents the Korean crisis in 1997. First, we show that it was hard to predict the Korean crisis at least up till the first half of 1997. Our judgment is based on the precrisis behavior of the leading indicators of currency crisis, financial market data such as forward exchange premiums and yield spreads, and cross-country probit analysis a la Frankel and Rose (1996). Second, our chronological study demonstrates that the Korean government unnecessarily aggravated the situation by committing a series of policy mistakes in handling the crisis. The government may not be responsible for not preventing the crisis but it was surely responsible for exacerbating the situation after the crisis started. ⓒ 1998 Asian Development Bank.
1998	Disequilibrium institutional factors in aggregate money demand: Evidence from three economiesThis paper investigates the disequilibrium effects of a number of institutional factors on the aggregate money demand behaviour of three Asian economies: Japan, Korea and Singapore. It identifies these institutional factors with strong government interventions through monetary or fiscal policies. The investigation is carried out through progressive model search following the equilibrium-correction modelling (ECM) approach. The findings confirm to the arguments that undesirable empirical results from the ECM procedure, such as residual (unconditional or conditional) heteroscedasticity or coefficient non-constancy, are most probably symptoms of the missing variable problem in the underlying theoretical model, and that extension of the theoretical model accordingly to include certain institutional factors pertaining to the particular economies under investigation can enhance the significance of the empirical studies in a substantial way.
1998	The composition of U.S.-East Asia trade and changing comparative advantageThis paper examines the composition of trade between the United States and eight Asian Pacific economies from 1962 to 1992. Analysis of the time series pattern of individual commodities at the SITC four-digit level reveals economically significant changes in the pattern of trade, reflecting changing comparative advantage based on changing factor proportions, technology transfer and product cycles. The composition of the eight bilateral trade relationships shows both increasing specialization over time, and a sequence from Japan to the four tigers, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong, and then to the remaining three East Asian economies, Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand.
1998	Regional development policies in the Republic of Korea: Policy responses to recent issuesBalanced regional growth has been, and still is, one of the major policy concerns in Korea. Recent global trends of internationalization of production and the information revolution, however, have challenged the traditional goals of regional planning. The current economic crisis brought about by the financial crunch in November 1997 requires the rethinking of regional development approaches and policies. If a nation has to struggle simply to survive in global competition, the development goal of regional equity may not have very high priority. The state-centred, top-down approach may have to be shifted to a more market-oriented approach. Also, the beginning of local autonomy in Korea after 1995 provided a new contextual variable in various approaches to regional planning. Moreover, the emergence of large city-regions crossing over administrative boundaries requires a rethinking of regional planning since these metro regions pose problems in the metro-governance of city-regions. At a more general level, it has been argued that city-regions rather than nation-states are the truly meaningful units in a globalized economy, though a city-state such as Singapore would be an exception. This raises a series of questions regarding who should plan for what and how. In fact, Korea, which is already a part of the global economic system, has been seeking ways to respond to those global challenges as well as the internal challenges brought about by past rapid economic growth. In the following, I will introduce some of the major policy responses to the challenges brough about by globalization, localization, and unbalanced regional growth. A few problems with these major policy responses will also be briefly mentioned. Finally, some lessons from Korea's regional development experience will be presented.
1998	Corporate governance and stock market duration for South Korea and the USAIn this paper we investigate the hypothesis that international differences in corporate governance systems may be portrayed through measuring the duration of stock markets. Stock market duration provides a means of measuring the average length of time for which investors retain their investment in a country's equity assets. We expect that countries classified as insider-dominated are likely to be characterised by longer stock market durations whereas outsider-dominated economies will have shorter stock market durations. By estimating the stock market duration of South Korea and the USA, we test our hypothesis and find that the USA, an outsider-dominated economy has a significantly shorter stock market duration than South Korea, an insiderdominated economy.
1998	The financial crisis: a watershed in economic thought about East AsiaFor the whole of East Asia, and for the world, the financial drama that came to international attention in the second quarter of 1997 has posed large questions about the operation of modern economies. While the expression 'Asian financial crisis' remains in the world's headlines, in February 1998 it would be more accurate to confine the term 'crisis' to Indonesia, Korea and Thailand, although some economies look more vulnerable to further complications than others, Vietnam amongst them. This paper examines the origins of the crisis and the manner in which it unfolded through 1997. It discusses possible consequences of recent events for long-term growth and structural change and economic thought.
1998	The Asian automotive industry: assessing the roles of state and market in the age of global competitionIn the 1970s, automotive industries in developing economies were rebuked for their failure to set in motion the technolgoical learning and industrial externalities that justified state promotion. However, in the 1990s, a number of Asian automotive industries throve with the rapid growth of their host economies. This paper assesses the current state and prospects of automotive industries in selected Asian countries with state-sponsored development programs - South Korea, Taiwan, China and India - and the ASEAN economies - Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam. To date, Korea is the only developing economy in Asia with an indigenous auto-manufacturing base capable of competing in the international market. Given developments in the world industry, the catch-up task for other countries in the region will be more difficult.
1998	Monetary Policy, Land Prices, and Collateral Effects on Economic Fluctuations: Evidence from JapanThis paper attempts to analyze empirically how impact on collateral values can magnify effects of monetary tightening on the economy. Theoretically, this paper is motivated by "financial accelerator" effects stemming from impacts of monetary policy on financing conditions. In this context, recent economic conditions in Japan deserve our special attention for several reasons. One, a large fraction of business investment financed by bank loans is secured by land. Two, excessively sharp increases in the land dependence of small firms with the asset price inflation in the late 1980s may make a collateral effect bigger, if it exists. Extending existing work to a model with land prices, I find a strong effect of monetary policy on land prices: monetary tightening associated with a rise in the short-term interest rate produces a significant and persistent decline in land prices. I then analyze a role of land prices in the monetary transmission mechanism. Two results are interesting. One, after monetary tightening, output falls. But the impact on output appears more severe and deeper than was predicted in existing studies. Two, the monetary policy shock turns out to be an important source of output variation, as opposed to the findings of existing work in which monetary policy explains output fluctuations very little. The implication is that together with reduced flows of credit after monetary contraction, movements in land prices may play a significant propagating role in the monetary transmission mechanism.J. Japan Int. Econ.September 1998,12(3), pp. 175-203. Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements, Kwanyang-dong, 1591-6, Dongan-Gu, Anyang, Korea 431-712.Copyright 1998 Academic Press. Journal of Economic LiteratureClassification Numbers C32, E32, E52. ⓒ 1998 Academic Press.
1998	Korea: the misunderstood crisisThe article argues, against the conventional wisdom, that the current Korean crisis is a crisis from underregulation, rather than from overregulation. It argues that ill-managed financial liberalization, abandonment of investment coordination, and poor exchange rate management were the underlying causes of the crisis. It then argues that, while certain structural changes made such policy shifts somewhat inevitable, there were also poor strategic choices and ideological prejudices involved. The article finally discusses whether the current International Monetary Fund program of institutional 'reform' in the Anglo-American direction will be able to revive the Korean economy in the long run.
1998	Income distribution and growth in East AsiaIt is widely believed that the East Asian economies performed exceptionally well not only in generating growth but also in keeping inequality law. This study tries to answer the questions raised by the claims of exceptionality of income distribution in East Asia. Central findings are that only Japan, Korea and Taiwan have legitimate claims to low inequality; that the East Asian economies distinguished themselves by their ability to translate high profit shares into high savings and investment rates; and that low inequality and high profit shares coexisted primarily due to the unusually even distribution of wealth.
1998	Accommodating public expenditure policies: the case of fast growing Asian economiesIt is widely believed that the exceptional economic performances of the East Asian economies are attributable as much to the visible hand of the state as to the invisible hand of the market. This paper analyzes the experiences of Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan in implementing a key instrument of state intervention, namely, public expenditure policy. The analysis shows that these economies could achieve high standards of physical and social infrastructure even with relatively low spending. The key features of complementary spending policy include: emphasis on macroeconomic stability, cost-effective spending, involvement of private sector in providing quasi-public goods, minimum distortions in the labor markets and human resource development to achieve a broad-based development.
1998	The Korean financial crisis: Causes, impact on FDI, and implications for central AsiaThrough the Asian financial crisis, many key international economic issues have come to the forefront the stability of the international financial system under the IMF, Asian values, the universal validity of the Asian Economic Development Model, China's leadership in the regional world economy, Japan's role in the region, and the immunity of Greater China from the current financial crisis. Currently, most Asian countries seem eager to redress structural problems involving the government sector, banking, and corporate governance. In the process of this full scale restructuring, Korea must reevaluate its economic relationship with Central Asia. This paper argues that Korean financial crisis stems basically from the system failure. Furthermore, since a small open economy carries with it intrinsic vulnerabilities, the government should be more careful in securing optimal foreign exchange, opening capital markets based on the economy's absorption capacity. In this respect, the banking industry should be run based on the profitability of capital. Once banking industries are distorted by the practice of government-led policy loans, it is more difficult to correct those customized distortions. The banking industry should play a larger role as the brain of the economy, sensing abnormalities of the economy. Moreover, in today's increasingly interdependent global economic system, no single country can solve its problems without close coordination of its policy with the outside world. An early warning system to signal financial instability would help developing economies in modernizing and strengthening their domestic financial institutions and would also work as a supplement to the IMF standby fund. Also, human resource management has proven too important to be neglected. Central Asia could derive lessons from the above Asian failure, not the Asian miracle, to avoid inappropriate policies and to deepen its economic development.
1998	Catching-up, crisis and industrial upgrading: Evolutionary aspects of technological learning in Korea's electronics industryThis paper addresses a puzzle: How is it possible that a country that has established a broad, export-oriented industrial base at record speed, remain vulnerable to the vicissitudes of international finance and currency markets? We argue that the Korean model that was tremendously successful for catching-up has now reached its limits. The focus is on the role of technological learning for the development of the electronics industry, a main carrier of Korea's successful late industrialization. It is shown that a heavy reliance on credit and an extremely unbalanced industry structure have given rise to a narrow knowledge base, and a sticky pattern of specialization. Catching-up has focused on capacity and international market share expansion for homogeneous, mass-produced products; very little upgrading has occurred into higher-end and rapidly growing market segments for differentiated products and services. Such truncated upgrading is one important reason for Korea's vulnerability to the financial and currency crisis. ⓒ 1998 BY JOHN WILEY & SONS (ASIA) LTD.
1998	Fast, global, and entrepreneurial: supply chain management, Hong Kong style. An interview with Victor Fung. Interview by Joan Magretta.Li & Fung, Hong Kong's largest export trading company, has been an innovator in supply chain management--a topic of increasing importance to many senior executives. In this interview, chairman Victor Fung explains both the philosophy behind supply chain management and the specific practices that Li & Fung has developed to reduce costs and lead times, allowing its customers to buy "closer to the market." Li & Fung has been a pioneer in "dispersed manufacturing." It performs the higher-value-added tasks such as design and quality control in Hong Kong, and outsources the lower-value-added tasks to the best possible locations around the world. The result is something new: a truly global product. To produce a garment, for example, the company might purchase yarn from Korea that will be woven and dyed in Taiwan, then shipped to Thailand for final assembly, where it will be matched with zippers from a Japanese company. For every order, the goal is to customize the value chain to meet the customer's specific needs. To be run effectively, Victor Fung maintains, trading companies have to be small and entrepreneurial. He describes the organizational approaches that keep the company that way despite its growing size and geographic scope: its organization around small, customer-focused units; its incentives and compensation structure; and its use of venture capital as a vehicle for business development. As Asia's economic crisis continues, chairman Fung sees a new model of companies emerging--companies that are, like Li & Fung, narrowly focused and professionally managed.
1998	U.S. nuclear nonproliferation policy in the Northeast Asian region during the Cold War: The South Korean caseIn over forty years of relations with the United States, South Korean decision-makers have had plenty of time to estimate the costs and benefits of acquiring nuclear weapons. The puzzle becomes why South Korea did not develop an operational nuclear capability, given the North Korean threat, the weakening of the U.S. guarantee, a vibrant economy, and an advanced nuclear manufacturing base. This case provides proof that U.S. rewards and threats significantly affect Third World states' nuclear decision-making and that the United States has greater influence with smaller and more vulnerable states than with larger and more technologically advanced states.
1998	The Korean financial crisis: diagnosis, remedics and prospectsPulling down the curtain on its economic miracle of the last three decades, South Korea suddently fell into a financial crisis in 1997, and was rescued by the IMF. The causes of the crisis are identified in four different sectors of the Korean economy: the real sector, the banking sector, the securities market and the foreign exchange market. Underlying the numerous causes identified for the crisis is the failure of the very institutions and economic structure that propelled Korea to its economic success, in adapting to emerging changes in domestic and international environments. The IMF rescue package is therefore intended to remedy the institutional and structural flaws. The Korean economy is at a crossroads. If it complies well with the IMF conditionality, the economy will be revitalized based on a firmer institutional and structural foundation within a few years. If, however, Korea fails to do so, it will remain an IMF recidivist. Although it has made substantial progress, Korea still faces serious challenges for a successful completion of the IMF programme.
1998	Technological progress versus efficiency gain in manufacturing sectorsThis study decomposes the nonparametric Malmquist productivity index for 36 Korean manufacturing sectors into two components; technological change and technical efficiency change. The empirical results show that while each sector displays quite different growth patterns, productivity growth is dominated by technological change. Technological change is found to have a negative correlation with efficiency change. Secondary regression performed in this study identifies the relationship between productivity growth measures and several key policy variables, such as effective protection rate, market concentration, and so forth. The productivity estimates are compared with those of the conventional Tornqvist productivity index.
1998	The export competitiveness of dynamic Asian economies, 1986-93: a shift-share analysisThis paper uses shift-share analysis to compare changes in the competitive position of six dynamic Asian economies (DAEs) - Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and Hong Kong - exporting to the USA, Japan and the Economic Union (EU) between 1986 and 1993. Two-digit data are selected for the top five manufactured exports to the USA and the EU, and the top four in the case of Japan. Our findings support the view that the older DAEs have become less competitive over this period in manufactured goods relative to emerging countries such as Malaysia and Thailand.
1998	Factors contributing to the financial crisis in KoreaKorea's economic development is a well documented fact. The globalization of the Korean economy brought with it a high rate of economic growth. The Korean economy began to experience a financial crisis from late 1997. This paper inquires into the causes that led to such a crisis. It shows that there were economic indicators foretelling the crisis. Among many factors causing the crisis, the current account deficit, the inadequate cash flows of corporations and the banks' weakening finances, and the small amount of international reserves, provided conditions for a successful speculative attack on the Korean won. The government guarantees led to over-investment and excessive borrowing. Thus, the self-fulfilling hypothesis of Flood and Garbers (1984) and Obstfeld (1986) and the hypothesis of Krugman (1998) explain the causes of the Korean crisis to a great extent. This paper addresses banks' performance and the weak financial condition of corporations and concludes that to get back on the path of stable economic growth, export diversification and productivity growth, together with a sound financial system, is necessary. ⓒ 1998 JAI Press Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
1998	The developmental state: Israel, South Korea, and Taiwan comparedThe growth performances of the Israeli economy during the years 1948-1973 were excellent by any criteria and are comparable to the 'miraculous' performances of South Korea and Taiwan. Excellent economic performances in the three countries were accompanied by the presence of an autonomous and an interventionist state as well as by strategies of governed development (in the spheres of finance, investment, and international trade). The comparison is used to shed new light on the Israeli political economy as well as on the replicability of the developmental state model across regions, cultures, and political regimes. First, by comparing the three countries and pointing to the similarities in the role and autonomy of the state, the article offers a different interpretation of the Israeli economy from that offered by both neoclassical and neomarxist interpretations of the Israeli political economy. Second, successful cases of development are rare in our world; this should make the study of the Israeli political economy a valuable case-study for the proponents of the developmental state model. By pointing out the similarities in the growth performances and the developmental strategies of Israel, Taiwan, and South Korea, as well as the dissimilarities in their political regimes, their cultural traditions, and their regional settings, this article further strengthens the arguments in favor of state-guided economic development in developing countries.
1998	East Asian economic performance: Miracle or just a pleasant surprise?Publication of the East Asian Miracle (EAM, World Bank, 1993) appears, to borrow a phrase, to have generated more heat than light. The EAM analysed reasons for the economic success of the eight high performing Asian economies (HPAEs) - Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Republic of Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. The hope, at least of 'neutral' observers, was that we would be able to derive lessons regarding effective economic policies from a study of the experiences of the successful East Asian economies. The general criticism of the Report is that it tried to mould the HPAEs' experiences so that the lessons were consistent with Bank policy, in the process losing many distinguishing features of the EAM; more serious criticisms are that the report obfuscated and distorted the truth. It is not our intention to reopen debate about the Report (fully aired in a special issue of World Development, April 1994; and Rodrik, 1994). We do wish to address three questions. What were the distinguishing features of the East Asian economic success that led some observers to claim a miracle? What elements of economic policy contributed to their success, and are such elements present in the economic policies proposed by the Bank (in, for example, adjustment programmes)? Are there features of the HPAEs that can be adapted to help design successful policies for other countries? Put succinctly: what did they do that appears so good, how did they do it and can others do it? Section 2 reviews some of the EAM literature and identifies what have been cited as the principal factors contributing to HPAEs' economic success. The final part of that section compares the resulting 'list' to a list of elements of structural adjustment programmes. Section 3 is a more in-depth examination of six East Asian economies, to evaluate the elements of their economic performance. Section 4 turns to the question of the extent to which the success was policy-induced, and examines the political and policy dimensions of the economies. Section 5 presents our conclusions.
1998	Interpreting the Korean crisis: Financial liberalisation, industrial policy and corporate governanceThe article examines the three most contentious issues regarding the origins of and the solutions to the current Korean crisis-namely, financial liberalisation, industrial policy, and corporate governance. The authors argue that it was the dismantling of the traditional mechanisms of industrial policy and financial regulation, rather than the perpetuation of the traditional regime, that generated the crisis. They also point out that the allegedly pathological corporate governance system was neither a main cause of the crisis on its own, nor something that needs radical restructuring in the Anglo-American direction before the country can resume its growth.
1998	Asia's financial crisis in historical perspectiveThis article places the debate between prescribing illiquidity and prescribing insolvency in historical perspective, by comparing Asia's current debt crisis with Latin America's during the 1980s. It is then suggested that none of the Asian economies is in any meaningful sense 'insolvent', and that those who oppose the IMF-led 'bailout' fall into three equally misguided camps; -fiscal conservatives, left wing moralists, and right wing academics. This is not to suggest that the IMF's response to the Asian crisis has been flawless: it has not. Finally, the article argues that South Korea's currency crisis spread irrationally from the others', and was compounded by a 'reverse free rider' phenomenon among foreign lenders. A short appendix looks at South Korea's debt history between 1960 and 1989.
1998	Taming the tigers: The IMF and the Asian crisisABSTRACT This article is a contribution to the debate over Asias economic crisis. In particular it explores the actions and motives of one of the key actors in the Asian crash-the International Monetary Fund. The article demonstrates that the IMF does not have a monopoly of social or economic wisdom (far from it). If the Funds neoliberal crusaders can be reined in, and alternatives explored, the crisis can offer Asia the chance to forge democratic and sustainable alternatives to the ruinous development path of recent years. If not, then ordinary Asians could come to look back on the 1970s and 1980s as a golden era. That would indeed be a tragic testament to the failings of the rescue packages of 1997. ⓒ1998 Third World Quarterly.
1998	A political-economy analysis of the Asian financial crisisThis paper provides a political-economy analysis of the Asian financial crisis, with a focus on the economies of Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and Thailand. It explains why the crisis affected each of these countries differently and why the reasponses to the crisis differ between governments. The paper argues that banking crises need not necessarily lead to currency crisis. In particular, it provides an argument that, despite its banking crisis, Korea should have avoided a currency crisis because its economic fundamentals were fundamentally sound. That it failed to do so was due to the inertia of the previous government and IMF policies, which have the support of the current government because they are consistent with its political imperative. This paper also examines the roles played by the United States, Japan and China, which are the key regional players in the region, in the crisis. It argues that the behaviour of the key regional players was very much dictated by their domestic and international agendas.
1998	Current account and fiscal deficits: Evidence from five developing economies of AsiaThe persistent and coinciding fiscal and external trade deficits have been in the economic spotlight largely because of its important policy implications concerning the long-term viability of economic progress. Most studies on the subject have focused attention on the relationship between the two deficits in developed countries such as the United States. The present study, in contrast, uses multi-variate time series analysis to extend the "twin deficits" debate to five developing Southeast Asian economies - namely, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia and the Philippines. The discussion is especially relevant given the backdrop of the current economic crisis that is engulfing many Asian economies, and the plausibility that there could be wide disparities in the macroeconomic dynamics governing fiscal and current deficits between developing and developed economies. Specifically, Granger causality test based on a vector autoregressive (VAR) model is utilized to underpin the direction of causality between the two deficit series. Contrary to most findings in the literature, this study finds trade deficits to cause fiscal deficits and not vice versa. A case for increased government spending in response to the domestic hardships caused by a worsening of trade balance is made. Furthermore, the study identifies several other macroeconomic variables that jointly influence the twin deficits, thus highlighting some degree of commonality in the twin deficit nexus. A number of policy implications are derived. [JEL: E620, F400].
1998	Cointegration, error-correction, and the relationship between GDP and energy: The case of South Korea and SingaporeThis paper examines the causality issue between energy consumption and GDP for South Korea and Singapore, with the aid of cointegration and error-correction modeling. Results of the cointegration and error-correction models indicate bidirectional causality between GDP and energy consumption for both South Korea and Singapore. However, results of the standard Granger causality tests show no causal relationship between GDP and energy consumption for South Korea and unidirectional causal relationship from energy consumption to GDP for Singapore. ⓒ 1997 Elsevier Science B.V.
1998	Accounting for South Korean GDP growth: INdex-number and econometric estimatesThe paper estimates the contribution of each one of the major determinants of South-Korean nominal GDP growth: technological change, movements in the terms of trade, increases in the endowments of labor and capital, and changes in domestic output prices. An index-number technique is used as well as an econometric approach. Both have a tight theoretical foundation, being based on the GDP function approach to modeling the production sector of an open economy.
1998	Authoritarianism in the Hypermasculinized State: Hybridity, Patriarchy, and Capitalism in KoreaAuthoritarianism in East Asia's capitalist developmental state (CDS) is highly gendered. A hybrid product of Western masculinist capitalism and Confucian parental governance, CDS authoritarianism takes on a hypermasculinized developmentalism that assumes all the rights and privileges of classical Confucian patriarchy for the state while assigning to society the characteristics of classical Confucian womanhood: diligence, discipline, and deference. Society subsequently bears the burden of economics development without equal access to political representation or voice. Women in the CDS now face three tiers of patriarchal authority and exploitation: family, state, and economy. Nevertheless, new opportunities for democratization may arise even in the hypermasculinized state. We suggest: (1) emphasizing substantive, not just procedural, democratization, (2) exercising a maternalized discourse of dissent, and (3) applying hybrid strategies of social mobilization across states, societies, cultures, and movements. South Korea during the 1960s-1970s serves as our case study.
1998	Savings, investment and the corporation in the East Asian miracleMost economists will accept that high rates of accumulation have been a key factor in East Asian economic success. This contribution explores specifically the reasons for extremely high rates of corporate savings and investments achieved by these economies. It focuses on the private corporation, the relationship between the corporation and the government and that between the corporation and the financial system. It analyses the nature of the investments-profits-savings nexus in Japan and Korea and indicates its contribution towards resolving the main macroeconomic constraints on economic growth.
1998	Institutions and growth in Korea and Taiwan: the bureaucracyHow do competent bureaucracies emerge in developing countries? We examine bureacratic reform in Korea and Taiwan and argue that in both cases political leaders had an interest in reforming the civil service to carry out their programmetic initiatives. In addition, both governments undertook organisational reforms that made certain parts of the bureaucracy more meritocratic, while utilising centralised and insulated 'pilot agencies' in overall policy coordination. However, we reject the approach to bureaucratic reform that focuses primarily on its efficiency-enhancing effects. If delegation, bureaucratic and policy reform provided an easily available solution to the authoritarian's dilemma, dictators would have more uniformly positive economic records. Rather, we analyse the political and institutional constrains under which governing elites operate. In doing so, we underscore several important variations in the design of bureaucratic organisation, which in turn mirror largely policy differences between the two countries.
1998	An empirical investigation of bribery in international tradeIt is shown that the degree of corruption of importing countries affects the trade structure of exporting countries. Whereas Sweden and Malaysia experience disadvantages with corrupt counterparts, the exports of Belgium/Luxembourg, France, Italy, the Netherlands and South Korea are positively related to the level of corruption of importing countries. While we controlled for geographic, sectoral, idiomatic and other influences, it is concluded that these findings are due to the differentiated inclination of exporters to offer bribes. ⓒ 1998 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
1998	Patron-client networks and the economic effects of corruption in AsiaCorruption is likely to be widespread during the early stages of capitalist development when capitalists enjoy low legitimacy and states face excess demand for the rights and resources they allocate. Yet the economic effects of corruption have differed greatly across Asian countries. The study argues that the differential economic performance of developers is related to the types of patron-client networks within which their corruption has been located. The type of patron-client network determines the types of rights exchanged through corruption and the terms of these exchanges. The study compares patron?client networks in the Indian subcontinent, Malaysia, Thailand and South Korea. Such an examination helps to explain why in some countries corruption has attended rapid growth while in others it has implied transfers which are very damaging for growth. This provides a more nuanced understanding of the causes and effects ofcorruption and one which must precede the construction of appropriate institutional and political responses. ⓒ 1998 European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes.
1998	Science, technology and the state in Singapore: an overview, evaluation and comparisonThis paper traces the development of science and technology in Singapore from an historical perspective. Such science and technology policies underpin the state's role in its industrial transformation from an entrepot economy to one with manufacturing and services as the engines of growth. The study places the key policies in the context of the environment or background in which they were made. It endeavours, where possible, to explore the impact of science and technology policies on the economy as well as in education, research and development, information technology, telecommunications and related areas. Comparison is made between Singapore and other newly industrializing economies (NIEs) notably South Korea, especially in regard to the role of government and multinational corporations (MNCs) in facilitating the acquisition and upgrading of technology via technology transfer. It is argued that Singapore's science and technology strategies and policies are highly dependent on these two sources. Other developing countries have a choice of models from the NIEs. In particular, Singapore as a model implies strong state intervention and a partnership approach with MNCs through GLCs much as local enterprises are encouraged in R and D. As regional economies in Southeast Asia race along the same science and technology route, they affect Singapore's comparative and competitive advantages and its science and technology policies as well. Some prospective trends and issues are identified as Singapore takes off to become a developed industrial nation.
1998	A generalized double diamond approach to the global competitiveness of Korea and SingaporeGlobalization is very important for small economies such as Korea and Singapore. The single diamond model (, The competitive advantage of nations) suggests some important determinants for a nation's global competitiveness. However, this model is incomplete, mainly because it does not incorporate multinational activities. A new approach, the generalized double diamond model (, in Research in global strategic management: Volume 5: Beyond the diamond) offers some important extensions to Porter's original model. To test the validity of these two models this paper evaluates relevant data for both domestic and international variables in the case of Korea and Singapore. The results generally support the generalized double diamond model.
1998	A political economy analysis of the Korean economic crisisThis paper analyzes the causes of the Korean economic crisis from a political-economic perspective. The author points out that the economic causes which had been mentioned often such as overvalued won exchange rate and moral hazard of financial sector and corporate sector, have political origins. If the Korean economic crisis was caused by political economic factors, structural reform of the economy alone is not sufficient for economic recovery. Therefore, this paper argues, the behaviors of politicians, bureaucrats, and interest groups had been influential for resource allocation in the Korean economy. It concludes that the self-interest seeking activities of various interest groups should be properly controlled. ⓒ 1998 JAI Press Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
1998	Where do tigers sleep at night? The state's role in housing policy in South Korea and SingaporeA statist perspective holds that the autonomous state has enabled East Asian, newly industrialized countries, NICS, notably South Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, to achieve economic success. I challenge this perspective by showing that sociopolitical relations between the state and other social actors have deeply affected state actions in housing development in South Korea and Singapore. I demonstrate that the state role in housing is influenced by the nature of the political coalition the state has established with other social groups to promote economic growth. In South Korea, an exclusive developmental coalition between the state and large capitalists forced the state to minimize its role in housing provision and severely reduced state autonomy in controlling real estate speculation. In contrast, the state in Singapore has been proactive in providing public housing and controlling landownership on the basis of a balanced relation between growth and populist coalitions. This study suggests that the state role in national development needs to be understood in the context of political processes among social actors, such as political coalitions between the state and other social actors. The state can succceed in fostering social development only by establishing the proper political relations among social actors, such as the state, capital and labor.
1998	Financial and capital account liberalization in the pacific basin: Korea and Taiwan during the 1980'sThis paper presents an alternative method of testing for financial capital mobility in the absence of forward exchange markets. A model of domestic interest rate determination during liberalization is applied to Korean and Taiwanese data. A variety fo diagnostic and recursive tests are used to isolate structural breaks in the data. It is shown that Korean interest rates behave as if determined domestically until late 1988 or early 1989, while Taiwanese rates exhibit this behavior until early 1989. Thereafter, these economies' interest rates appear tightly linked to the Euro Yen rate. These results contrast with those obtained by Reisen and Yeches (1993) which indicated a single opening and closing for Korea, and no structural break for Taiwan. They also differ from those results of Jwa (1994) indicating two temporary openings for Korea. Greater integraton of these domestic markets with world financial markets suggests that it will be more difficult for these countries to stabilize their economies in the face of capital inflows and outflows. [F32, F34]. ⓒ 1998, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
1997	Technology transfer in East Asia and its implications for regional cooperationThe importance of technology in economic development is indisputable. A large part of the developmental process in East Asian countries has been greatly accelerated by the transfer of technology from developed countries. This paper, based on detailed data obtained from selected samples of about 100 companies in Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, and Indonesia, examines several key determinants of the process of acquisition, assimilation and intemalization of imported technology in business enterprises. Drawing on the findings, this paper also suggests several implications for regional cooperation in enhancing the process of technology transfer in East Asia.
1997	International price linkage within a region: The case of East AsiaThis paper investigates how "prices" in East Asian economies correlate with those in Japan and the United States. The analysis is particularly noteworthy because although the East Asian economies are geographically close to Japan, their currencies have been tied more closely to the U.S. dollar. In this paper, we analyze two different types of "prices": overall price levels in terms of the same currency and relative prices among different commodities. We demonstrate that overall price levels in the East Asian economies are more closely related to those in the United States. However, the relative prices in East Asia, especially those in Taiwan and Korea, are more closely correlated with those in Japan. These price correlation patterns are in marked contrast with those in other regions.J. Japan. Int. Econ.December 1993,11(4), pp. 643-666. Faculty of Economics, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan; and Department of Economics, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada, and Graduate School of Economics, Hitotsubashi University, Japan. ⓒ 1997 Academic Press.
1997	Toward korean unification: A policy proposal for investment in North KoreaSouth Korea became a net-provider of foreign direct investment in the late 1980s, and is now emerging as a major source of foreign direct investment in ASEAN and China. In general, the economic gains that the host country realizes from foreign direct investment are not a factor that the home country should take into account in deciding its policy on outward investment. The case of South Korea is, however, an exception to this general principle because of the possibility of the eventual unification of the two Koreas. Given that the unification cost borne by South Korea will decrease as the North Korean economy improves, the South Korean government should actively encourage South Korean investment in North Korea by offering appropriate incentives. The rationale for this policy is that the beneficial effect of investment on the North Korean economy is not a factor taken into account by private investors. Policy measures in this direction include the provision of a corrective subsidy for North Korea-bound investment.
1997	The effects of economic integration between North and South Korea: a computable general equilibrium analysisThis paper investigates the potential impact of economic integration between North and South Korea on the economy of South Korea. A nine-sector, trade-focused, computable general equilibrium (CGE) model is constructed. The model is used to quantify the likely consequences of various forms of economic integration between the two Koreas. The simulation results indicate that unless factor movement (labor inflow from the North, and capital outflow to the same) are considered, any preferential trading system between the two Koreas has an inconsequential impact (positive or negative, aggregate or sectoral) from the viewpoint of the south. Much greater effects, however, follow from factor movements. [C68, D68, F13, F15]. ⓒ 1997, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
1997	A new proposal for the reunification of the two Koreas: Economic issuesWe present an alternative five-step plan which not only supplements the deficiencies of the current official plans for reunification, but also incorporates recent developments, such as, joint membership of North and South Korea of the United Nations (1991), and mutual agreements on reconciliation, nonaggression and economic exchange and cooperation (1992). The plan starts with a preliminary step for the normalization of relations between the two Koreas, and then subsequently moves on to economic integration, social integration, political integration, and military integration. However, as the political confrontation in the Korean peninsula has already been well-researched elsewhere, We discuss economic issues which are likely to present themselves during the unification process. Economic issues, rather than the political ones, could prove to be of the greatest concern to a smooth reunification between the peninsula's long- divided neighbors. ⓒ 1997 JAI Press Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
1997	Technology, commodity chains and global inequality: South Korea in the 1990sRecent conceptualizations of international economic restructuring and ‘global commodity chains’ offer an opportunity to rethink the role of technology in the world-system and its role in generating global inequality. This article attempts to untangle the complex relationship between technological innovation/application/transfer and differential patterns of socioeconomic growth and development. After reviewing key theoretical debates about the nature of global economic ‘restructuring’, I discuss the recent experience of South Korea, where planners and policy makers are acutely aware of the need to develop indigenous science and technology capabilities. Drawing on secondary sources as well as interviews with government officials, academic experts and corporate engineers, I argue that even the seemingly ‘hi-tech’ South Korean economy is characterized by technological dependence. The ultimate success of Korean efforts to promote ‘industrial upgrading’, market directly to lucrative world markets, and join the ranks of the ‘advanced’ economies continues to hinge on the ability of the South Korean state and corporations to break the oligopolistic control of technology held by core interests, who still reap a disproportionate share of global profits/surplus. ⓒ 1997 Routledge.
1997	Gender wage inequality and export-led growth in South KoreaThis article investigates the relationship between gender, wage inequality and export-led growth in South Korea. The persistent gender wage gap in Korea's manufacturing sector is found to be linked to women's segregation in the country's major export industries where real wage growth has lagged productivity growth, despite favorable market conditions that might drive up women's wages relative to those of men. The interaction of state- and firm-level hiring, training, and promotion practices that structure women's and men's employment opportunities differently appear to have resulted in a relatively weaker fall-back position for women in labour markets. Econometric results are consistent with the hypothesis that women's weaker fall-back position limits their ability to bargain for wage increases commensurate with productivity growth. Further, evidence is presented which links gender wage inequality to the growth of Korean exports.
1997	Korean economic developments and prospectsSouth Korea's economic success is well-documented. It shows that a country can leap from being one of the poorest in the world to one of the richest (an OECD member) in just one generation. This paper first reviews the broad literature, both in English and Korean, on Korean economic developments and the major contributing factors over the last 33 years (1963-95). It then attempts to shed some light on the prospects for the Korean economy. Major contributing factors for Korea's rapid economic development include a high accumulation of physical and human capital, a high saving rate, an export-led development strategy, state intervention in the economy, efficient management and conducive culture. The prospects of the Korean economy appear bright but it would be difficult for other developing countries to emulate the Korean model.
1997	Competitive industrial policy and macro performance: Has South Korea outperformed Taiwan?Taiwan adopted a competitive industrial policy before South Korea but pursued it more cautiously. According to orthodox theory, Taiwan's less interventionist policy should have increased its initial per capita income lead over South Korea. In fact, the income gap narrowed, and income distribution improved relatively in South Korea, casting doubt on the orthodox criticism of South Korean industrial policy. But some qualification of the South Korean success is in order. The South Korean gains were achieved at the cost of greater consumption foregone and greater concentration of economic power than in the case of Taiwan. Moreover, the crucial post-1985 Taiwanese economic slow down was partly due to economic maturation as well as to tardy financial reform and to the opportunities created by the Chinese diaspora for Taiwanese firms to invest abroad.
1997	Accounting for recent economic growth in Southeast AsiaThis paper identifies the major factors explaining GDP growth in a number of Southeast Asian countries during the 1980s and early 90s. Estimates of the contribution of technological change, increases in the endowments of labor and capital, movements in the terms of trade, and changes in domestic output prices are reported for Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand. Partial results for Indonesia and Malaysia are also shown. An index number approach is used; it has a tight theoretical foundation, being based on the GNP/GDP function approach to modeling the production sector of an open economy.
1997	The changing gender wage gap in KoreaWe examine how females have fared relative to males in the rapidly growing Korean economy. Similar to the US, the average wage of Korean females has increased relative to males. Unlike the US, the increase appears to be due mainly to improvements in productive characteristics such as schooling and experience and not reductions in wage discrimination.
1997	Sources of fluctuations in output: Evidence from small, open economies of AsiaThis paper considers a set of five Asian economies that differ in their degree of outward orientedness, and examines the role of oil price shocks, non-oil world supply shocks, exports and domestic supply shocks in causing fluctuations in domestic output. Results from a vector autoregressive model indicate that exports and non-oil world supply shocks are more important for the 'outward-oriented' economies of Singapore, South Korea and Malaysia, when compared with the moderately 'inward-oriented' economy of the Philippines and the strongly 'inward-oriented' economy of India. However, exports and non-oil world supply shocks each account for no more than a fifth of the variation in output in Singapore, South Korea and Malaysia. There is no long-term equilibrium relationship (cointegration) between exports and output. This supports the view that exports were not the single driving force behind the economic growth of these high-performing countries. A substantial portion of variation in domestic output is explained by domestic supply shocks. Adverse effects of oil price shocks are found in the case of the oil-importing countries of South Korea and India.
1997	Medium size citiesThis paper investigates the role of medium size cities in economies, drawing on the experiences of Brazil, Japan, Korea, the USA and other countries. The paper argues that city size distributions are stable over time and that medium size cities are highly specialized, particularly in manufacturing activities, compared to metro areas. The relationship between medium size cities and metro areas is explored, examining issues of industrial suburbanization, the product cycle, edge city formation, and the advent of information technologies.
1997	Sources of growth: A reconsideration and general equilibrium application to IndonesiaA Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model of Indonesia is developed in which total factor productivity growth in manufacturing is endogenously determined. Productivity growth is conceptualized as human and social capital accumulation, mediated by learning and institutional development stimulated by the trade regime. These factors are modeled as externalities determined by export growth and capital equipment imports. The model is used to analyze the gains deriving from the externalities, and subsidies that amplify their effects, leading Indonesia to acquire Korea-like institutions sooner. The growth and fiscal implications of such counterfactual simulations are analyzed in a realistic general equilibrium framework with a fully articulated public sector. ⓒ 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
1997	Sources of macroeconomic fluctuations in the newly industrialized economies: A common trends approachThis paper investigates the sources of aggregate economic fluctuations in the newly industrialized economies (NIE), that is Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong. The relative significance of permanent and transitory shocks is evaluated by means of a common trends representation of a VAR model in output and inflation. The results suggest that, at the typical business cycle frequency, supply shocks are the dominant cause of fluctuations in output in all the countries considered. Their role however in explaining fluctuations in inflation is found to be significant only in the case of Taiwan where approximately 50% of the forecast error variation in this variable is attributable to permanent shocks. Finally, business cycles in the NIEs turned out to be fairly well synchronized during the 1970-1994 period.
1997	The earnings experience of rural-urban migrants in KoreaMigration models in the Harris-Todaro tradition imply that urban informal sector earnings are less than rural sector earnings. Examining the situation for Korea, we find that both urban formal and informal sector earnings exceed earnings opportunities in rural areas, making rural-urban migration the best decision for the individual and for the Korean economy in terms of maximizing output. A Dutch Disease model is offered as an explanation for the unexpected strength of urban informal sector earnings. The implication for policy makers is that government efforts may be better directed toward mitigating the externalities caused by over-crowding, rather than attempting to influence population movements. [J31]. ⓒ 1997, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
1997	On the temporal causal relationship between energy consumption, real income, and prices: Some new evidence from Asian-energy dependent NICs based on a multivariate cointegration/vector error-correction approachDeparting from previous studies on the causal relationship between energy consumption and economic growth, this paper illustrates how the finding of cointegration (i.e., long-term equilibrium relationship) between these variables, may be used in testing Granger causality. Based on the most recent Johansen's multiple cointegration tests preceded by various unit root or nonstationarity tests, we test for cointegration between total energy consumption, real income, and price level of two highly energy dependent East-Asian NICs: Korea and Taiwan. Nonrejection of cointegration between variables rules out Granger noncausality and implies at least one way of Granger causality, either unidirectional or bidirectional. Secondly, by using a dynamic vector error-correction model, we then analyze the direction of Granger causation and hence the within-sample Granger exogeneity or endogeneity of each of the variables. Thirdly, the relative strength of the causality is gauged (through the dynamic variance decomposition technique) by decomposing the total impact of an unanticipated shock to each of the variables beyond the sample period, into proportions attributable to shocks in the other variables, including its own, in the multivariate system. Finally, these response paths of shocks to the system are traced out using impulse response graphs. Results based on these four dynamic tools of analysis broadly indicate that all three variables are cointegrated and mutually causal. The Granger-causal chain implied by our evidence tends to suggest that although all these variables are endogenous (i.e., they all share the brunt of adjustment to reestablish the long-term equilibrium), relatively in these two highly energy-dependent economies, in line with expectations, it is the rate of price change that leads to the change in energy consumption, which then leads on to the change in economic growth. Overall, shocks to the system seemed to have had a more sustained if not pronounced effect in Korea than in Taiwan. ⓒ 1997 Society of Policy Modeling. Published by Elsevier Science Inc.
1997	Changing patterns of trade in the world iron ore and steel market: An econometric analysisThe world iron ore and steel trade is undergoing significant restructuring, with rapidly developing economies in regions such as China, India, and South Korea emerging as key centers of growth in the sector. Alternatively, the industrialized economies of the European Union, Japan, and North America are gradually losing their dominant role. This paper describes an econometric trade model that has been constructed to quantitatively evaluate the dynamics of the world iron ore and steel market to the year 2000. Results obtained from this model indicate that the developing Asian region will account for 67 percent of the projected increase in annual steel consumption to the end of this decade. Production in the region is projected to increase by 37.2 million tonnes. To produce this volume of steel, China alone will need to import 57.9 million tonnes of iron ore annually by the year 2000. The world's major iron ore exporters - Australia, Brazil, and India - are projected to increase production accordingly. ⓒ Society for Policy Modeling, 1997.
1997	Modeling economic reform in North KoreaWe construct a computable general equilibium (CGE) model of the North Korean economy and use it to simulate the response of the economy to reform, focusing on three issues: static gains from increased trade, increases in total factor productivity, and the obsolescence shock reduction in the value of the pre-reform capital stock. Empirical results indicate that North Korea is a tremendously distorted economy, and potential income gains from trade liberalization are on the order of 40-50 percent. Even with these income gains, the gap between per capita incomes in the North and South would remain daunting. For the 1990 calibration of the model, the additional capital investment necessary to raise North Korean incomes to 60 percent of those in the South would be $319 billion. This figure rises rapidly as the onset of reform is delayed and the gap between North and South Korean incomes continues to grow. (JEL: F14, C68, 0.11 and 0.53) ⓒ 1997 JAI Press Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
1997	Should the Kuznets Effect be Relied on to Induce Equalizing Growth: Evidence from Post-1950 DevelopmentThe large body of cross-sectional statistical research assessing (a) Kuznets inverted-U for less-developed countries (LDCs), and (b) a turning point, is analyzed. An alternative methodology is presented. Those countries which started in 1950 well below the "turning point" in RGDP and which reached an RGDP well above the "turning point" by 1980 are utilized as key cases. Income distribution data and assessments from individual country experts are combined with historical-comparative microanalyses for each key case - Brazil, Costa Rica, Greece, Japan, Malaysia, South Korea, Taiwan, and Turkey - to construct patterns of income distribution during this crucial growth period. It is demonstrated that the jury is still very much out on the Kuznets inverted-U for LDCs, and the notion of a turning point should be rejected. Copyright ⓒ 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
1997	Japanese Colonialism and Korean Development: A CritiqueNew scholarship on economic development in Korea has focused on the beneficial effects of Japanese colonialism and on certain continuities between Korea's growth strategy before and after World War II. We challenge this new revisionism. The growth record under the Japanese occupation was more modest than is often thought, there are greater discontinuities than continuities between the colonial and postwar eras, and political independence was an important factor in subsequent growth. We trace the turning point in Korea's long-term growth to political, policy and institutional changes that occurred following the military's seizure of power in 1961. ⓒ 1997 Elsevier Science Ltd.
1997	Exchange rate and stock price interactions in emerging financial markets: Evidence on India, Korea, Pakistan and the PhilippinesInteractions are investigated between exchange rates and stock prices in the emerging financial markets of India, Korea, Pakistan and the Philippines. The motivation is to establish the causal linkages between leading prices in the foreign exchange market and the stock market; the linkages have implications for the ongoing attempts to develop stock markets in emerging economies simultaneously with a policy shift towards independently floating exchange rates. Some recent econometric techniques are applied to a bivariate vector autoregressive model using monthly observations on the IFC stock price index and the real effective exchange rate over 1985:01-1994:07. The results show unidirectional causality from exchange rates to stock prices in all the sample countries, except the Philippines. This finding has policy implications; it suggests that respective governments should be cautious in their implementation of exchange rate policies, given that such policies have ramifications on their stock markets.
1996	Regulation issues in the era of financial liberalization: Japan, Korea and TaiwanThis paper reviews the regulation issues in the era of financial market liberalization, especially as they relate to the developments in Japan, Korea and Taiwan over the recent decades. Liberalization of financial markets following the experiences of the 1970s and 1980s when much regulation was in place in support of the policy of an accelerated economic growth by targeted/planned development of heavy and chemical industries is very much welcome. However, it is argued here that liberalization of the financial markets can be effective only by a policy of collaboration between the private sector and the government. The development of an infrastructure to that end is in order, and prudent regulation to control any and all counter-productive practices in the financial markets is strongly recommended JEL G28, 053 ⓒ 1996 JAI Press Inc. All rights of reproduction in any form reserved.
1996	Alternative visions of security in Northeast AsiaAlthough no security structure exists yet in Northeast Asia comparable to Europe's NATO, there is movement toward new arrangements as the century ends. Unresolved cold war disputes on the Korean Peninsula and between China and Taiwan as well as controversy over an appropriate Japanese role in the twenty-first century combine to sustain general regional support for a continued American force presence in Japan and Korea. Nevertheless, two potential developments could erode that presence over time: (1) the unification of Korea, after which U.S. troops on the peninsula might be unacceptable and (2) a change in American budgetary priorities that could significantly draw down forward deployments in the western Pacific. In anticipation of these changes, Northeast Asian states are beginning regional security dialogues.
1996	The impact of exchange-rate uncertainty on export growth: evidence from Korean dataThe statistical relationship between exports and real exchange-rate uncertainty has been examined extensively in recent years for a variety of industrial countries. However, very little, if any, work has been done on developing economies. In this paper, we investigate this relationship for the developing economy of Korea, using multivariate cointegration and error-correction techniques. The major result suggests that real exchange-rate uncertainty has a negative effect on exports in the short-run as well as the long-run. [F14, F31]. ⓒ 1996, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.
1996	Nontradable goods prices and per-capita income: An application to regional Korean dataPooled time-series cross-sectional regional data for Korea over the period 1985-1991 are used to investigate points which emerged from the United Nations International Comparison Project. The results, based on a regional analysis, are opposite to those of the ICP. The prices of services do not increase more rapidly in fast growing than in slow growing regions. This regional analysis provides contradictory evidence to the widely recognized stylized fact that the prices of nontradables increase with real per capita income by a larger margin than the prices of tradables increase.
1996	Technology imports and R &amp; D efforts of Korean manufacturing firmsThis paper analyzes the relationship between technology imports and R&D efforts of Korean manufacturing firms by a two-stage method. In the first stage, using a sample representing the whole population of firms, the paper shows that firms importing technology tend to commit themselves to R&D efforts through having formal R&D institutes. In the second stage, it shows that among firms with formal R&D institutes, technology imports have non-complementary relationship with R&D efforts. Moreover, when technology imports are considered interactively with international inventive activity, they turn out to have rather a substitutive relationship with R&D efforts.
1996	Catching up in the postwar period: Puerto Rico as the fifth "Tiger"?Puerto Rico experienced one of the world's most rapid growth rates in both GDP per capita and labor productivity - a performance that puts it into the same league as Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. Moreover, Puerto Rico significantly narrowed the productivity gap between itself and the United States. Special circumstances played a role in its development, including unrestricted emigration to the mainland, generous federal transfer payments, and special tax incentives for investment. But our analysis suggests that even without these advantages annual growth in GDP per capita would have averaged 3.8% over 1950-90, instead of its actual rate of 4.2%. Copyright ⓒ 1996 Elsevier Science Ltd.
1996	East Asian export competitiveness: New measures and policy implicationsThis paper demonstrates the remarkable competitiveness of East Asian countries in world export markets for manufactures and develops some policy implications, both for developed and other developing economies. Using constant market share analysis, applied to data for exports from three East Asian countries - Korea, China and Indonesia - to markets in the industrially advanced economies (IAEs), it shows that East Asian countries have increased their share, not merely in IAE imports, but in total IAE market sales at the expense of exporters from other countries and of domestic IAE producers.
1996	Introduction: population migration and urbanization in developing countries.This introductory article discusses the correlation between migration and rapid urbanization and growth in the largest cities of the developing world. The topics include the characteristics of urbanization, government policies toward population migration, the change in absolute size of the rural population, and the problems of maintaining megacities. Other articles in this special issue are devoted to urbanization patterns in China, South Africa, Iran, Korea and Taiwan as newly industrialized economies (NIEs), informal sectors in the Philippines and Thailand, and low-income settlements in Bogota, Colombia, and India. It is argued that increased urbanization is produced by natural population growth, the expansion of the urban administrative area, and the in-migration from rural areas. A comparison of urbanization rates of countries by per capita gross national product (GNP) reveals that countries with per capita GNP of under US$2000 have urbanization rates of 10-60%. Rates are under 30% in Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, China, and Indonesia. Rapid urbanization appears to follow the economic growth curve. The rate of urbanization in Latin America is high enough to be comparable to urbanization in Europe and the US. Taiwan and Korea have high rates of urbanization that surpass the rate of industrialization. Thailand and Malaysia have low rates of urbanization compared to the size of their per capita GNP. Urbanization rates under 20% occur in countries without economic development. Rates between 20% and 50% occur in countries with or without industrialization. East Asian urbanization is progressing along with industrialization. Africa and the Middle East have urbanization without industrialization. In 1990 there were 20 developing countries and 5 developed countries with populations over 5 million. In 10 of 87 developing countries rural population declined in absolute size. The author identifies and discusses four patterns of urban growth.
1995	Determinants of South Korean Economic Growth 1955?1990Disparities between growth rates of different countries are only in part explainable by basic factors of production. New growth theory links economic growth, e.g., to increasing returns to scale, to human capital development and stresses the important role of institutions. Our aim is to determine the growth factors for Korea by a time-series analysis applying cointegration and error-correction techniques. The results show that human capital, investment and exports enhance economic development, while inflation and government consumption exert a negative influence on growth. Additionally, the import substitution phases during the 50ies and 70ies as well as a productivity oriented wage development contribute to economic growth. [F14, 047]. ⓒ 1995, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1995	The structure-climate relationship in Korean organizationsResearch using U.S. samples has demonstrated a significant relationship between organizational structure and organizational climate. Given recent developments in Korea, as well as the call to test organization theory and behavior concepts across cultures, this study analyzed the structure-climate relationship in large Korean organizations (N = 1,192 employees in 27 firms). Similar to U.S.-based results, it was found that lower levels of centralization and conflict in the Korean firms were associated with more positive employee perceptions of organizational climate. However, contrary to U.S.-based findings, greater formalization in the Korean firms also led to positive perceptions of climate. Interpretations of these findings are discussed and implications for future management practice offered. ⓒ 1995 Faculty of Business Administration National University of Singapore.
1995	Russia and the United States: Still cold in Northeast Asia?The US has been reluctant to acknowledge Russia's relevance to the Asia-Pacific, the author says, because “too little time has passed since the interests of these two former adversaries collided in the region” Russia has the longest Pacific coastline and borders with China, Japan, Korea and Mongolia. Despite the end of the Cold War, however, Russia is still not an integrated participant in Northeast Asian economic cooperation. Vladimir Ivanov is a Visiting Fellow at the Economic Research Institute for Northeast Asia in Niigata. He argues that Russia has made a clear choice between “guns and growth,” and that the country should be allowed to come in from the cold and join this region's development. ⓒ 1995, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1995	Another look at the East Asian miracleThis article examines the main ingredients of the East Asian success story in each subphase of its post-war transition growth process. It focuses mainly on Taiwan (China), with comparative side glances at the Republic of Korea. The initial conditions facing the region were favorable, especially in Taiwan (China). The early import substitution subphase was unusually mild and contributed to the emergence of strong linkages between agricultural and nonagricultural activities. Subsequently, flexible labor markets, human capital policies, and major macro and structural policy reforms culminated in an increasingly export-oriented industrialization effort. Once labor surpluses were ultimately exhausted, government policies accommodated Taiwan (China)'s entry into the technological era of the 1970s and 1980s. During the past four decades of a signally successful transition growth effort, public policies in East Asia have consistently accommodated the changing needs of the economy, rather than guide its path directly. ⓒ 1995 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/THE WORLD BANK.
1995	The soviet economic declineSoviet growth from 1960 to 1989 was the worst in the world after we control for investment and human capital; the relative performance worsens over time. There is some evidence that the burden of defense spending modestly contributed to the Soviet debacle. The declining Soviet growth rate from 1950 to 1987 can be accounted for by a declining marginal product of capital with a constant rate of growth of total factor productivity. The Soviet reliance on extensive growth (rising capital-to-out-put ratios) was no greater than that of market economies, such as Japan and the Republic of Korea, but a low elasticity of substitution between capital and labor implied especially acute diminishing returns to capital compared with the case in market economies. ⓒ 1995 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/THE WORLD BANK.
1995	Exploring the three varieties of East Asia's state-guided development model: Korea, Singapore, and TaiwanIn the postwar era, the East Asian state-guided development model has worked well to create successive economic miracles in the region. However, the enduring variances of the individual economies in East Asia still remain. This article explores the empirical diversities hidden behind the intra-regional commonalities. In particular, on the "growthstability-equity" spectrum, the East Asian development paradigm could be sub-divided into three categories: South Korea's "growth-obsessed" pattern (G); Singapore's "growth-with-stability" model (G-S); and Taiwan's "equity-and-stability-based growth" model (G-S-E). Largely derived from the deliberate political choice of a particular strategic path, each model of East Asia has materialized on the basis of strong developmentalist states. However, unlike the multi-goal options (G-S/G-S-E), as in Singapore and Taiwan, the mono-goal options ((G), as in Korea, could gain the chosen objective at considerable cost to the neglected dimensions. As a result, given a set of necessary political conditions, the multi-goal options are a better choice for Third World policy practitioners than are the mono-goal options. ⓒ 1995 Springer.
1995	Financial development in Asia: Some analytical issuesTwenty-two years ago, Ronald McKinnon and Edward Shaw highlighted some of the deleterious effects of financial repression-interest rate ceilings, high reserve requirements, directed credit policies, and discriminatory taxation of financial intermediaries. Both books presented some theoretical underpinnings for policy recommendations, based in large part on reforms in Taiwan (early 1950s) and Korea (mid-l960s), that were already in vogue. Since 1973 there has been a literature explosion in the field of financial development, much of it focused on the Asian experience. This article constitutes the third in a series of articles which surveys the literature on financial development in Asia for the period 1988-94.
1995	Estimating and comparing learning curves in three Asian economiesThis paper consists of two parts. In the first, a method is suggested to isolate the effects of scale economies on learning phenomena by integrating the conventionally specified learning curve with the production function in neoclassical economics. The problem of establishing the variable for measuring experience is dealt with in the estimation procedure. Using this method we estimated the learning curves of 20 industries in the manufacturing sector in Singapore using data taken from 1961 to 1991. More modern industries like electronics, precision instruments and pharmaceutics have steeper learning curves than older industries. Among traditional industries, the food and beverage industry has a greater learning potential than others. In the second part of the paper, the learning curves for 11 common industries in South Korea, Japan and Singapore were estimated and compared. The Japanese industries are found to have steeper learning curves compared to those in Singapore and South Korea. ⓒ 1995 Kluwer Academic Publishers.
1995	The Uruguay round trade liberalization and structural adjustment in developing AsiaDeveloping Asia is undergoing rapid structural change. As ASEAN, China, and South Asia rapidly expand their labor-intensive manufactured exports, the NIEs (Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan) are moving into more capital- and skill-intensive industries. The Uruguay Round trade liberalization to be implemented in the next decade or so is expected to have major impact on this process in the region. Simulations using a global computable general equilibrium model suggest that agriculture in the NIEs (along with Japan and the EU) will considerably contract as a result of trade liberalization. Textile and clothing manufacturing will substantially expand in all developing Asian economies following the phasing out of the Multifibre Arrangement, while more capital-intensive industries generally face downward pressure. With substantial welfare gains from trade liberalization, the developing Asian economies are well positioned to manage the transition and should push for vigorous implementation of the Uruguay Round reforms. ⓒ 1995.
1995	Does agriculture really matter? The case of Korea, 1910-1970This paper analyses the magnitude of growth in the agricultural sector prior to industrialization in Korea. It presents an argument that runs contrary to the general view on the nature of economic growth in Korea, namely that there was very little growth in the agricultural sector prior to industrial takeoff. Rather the data suggest that large investments were made during Japanese colonization and subsequent industrialization. These investments had high payoffs not just in terms of rice production but also in terms of building institutional capacity and creating infrastructure. The Korean case is not an anomaly but an interesting and somewhat unique example of agricultural development preceding rapid industrial expansion. ⓒ 1995.
1995	Export-led growth and the four little dragonsThis paper examines the hypothesis of export-led growth for the ‘Four Little Dragons’ in Asia. The framework of analysis is a five-variable vector autoregressive model. The relationship between exports and output is evaluated through the computation of variance decompositions, impulse response functions, and cointegration. The variance decompositions indicate significant feedback relations between exports and output. The impulse response funct’dns indicate significant, positive feedback effects in the short run. The cointegration test, however, does not yield similar results for the long-run relations. The results are at odds with the export-led growth hypothesis, but the shortrun results appear consistent with the feedback model in which export promotion and economic growth reinforce each other in the process of economic development. ⓒ Routledge 1995.
1995	East Asian latecomer firms: Learning the technology of electronicsThis paper introduces the idea of the latecomer firm to explore how the four dragons of East Asia (South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore) learned to innovate in electronics. The paper examines the historical progress of technological development and sets out the institutional mechanisms by which firms acquired foreign technology. Using one case study from each country, the paper explores how East Asian firms learned process and product skills and know-how. Within the firms, subcontracting and original equipment manufacture (OEM) mechanisms acted as a training school for latecomers, enabling them to overcome entry barriers and to assimilate manufacturing and design technology. The needs of export customers drove the pace of learning and acted as a focusing device for technological assimilation, adaptation and innovation. To interpret the findings, a simple model of how latecomers linked their technological learning to export markets is put forward. In contrast with the research and development  and design-led strategies typical of leaders and followers, latecomers began with incremental improvements to manufacturing processes which led on to minor product innovations. The evidence suggests that the origins and paths of the East Asian latecomers continue to influence their strategies, structures and technological orientations. ⓒ 1995.
1995	The informal sector and the local economy in Seoul: a case study of subcontracting in four informal-enterprise industrial districtsBased on a case study of garment and fabricated-metal industries in four informal-enterprise districts in Seoul, this article highlights how informal sub-contracting production has increased during the recent industrial restructuring process. It explains the basic characteristics of the study areas and the sampled enterprises. The author discusses sub-contracting production processes and mechanisms in Seoul's informal garment and fabricated-metal industries and identifies some positive evidence showing the flexible production environment in the local arena. The author suggests some realistic informal sector policies/programmes to be initiated and implemented by the local government. -from Authors
1995	Comparative advantage in manufacturing as a determinant of industrialization: The Korean caseThis paper provides appropriate empirical evidence to test competing hypotheses regarding Korean industrialization - has Korea followed the neoclassical path of comparative advantage or did Korea anticipate comparative advantage? By calculating "revealed comparative advantage" (RCA) indexes of Korean manufacturing sectors for 1965-1992, my empirical results support the hypotheses of Blumenthal and Amsden that Korea gained dynamic comparative advantage by forcing capital-intensive industry within a labor-surplus economy. The results also show, however, that comparative advantage of labor-intensive industries should not be underestimated. My results show that Korea rapidly gained competitiveness in some heavy or medium industries through antineoclassical political behavior, while it maintained competitiveness for a relatively long time in some light industries through neoclassical market behavior. ⓒ 1995.
1995	The developmental state, government, and Singapore's economic development since 1960Government interventionism is widely acknowledged to characterize less-developed countries, but consensus is lacking as to whether it promotes economic development, and if so, how. The present article analyzes the nature of government involvement in the Singapore model of economic development, and emergence of a developmental state closely associated with this model. It compares Singapore's experience with South Korea's and Taiwan's, where government also contributed to development success, and with other Asian countries where government failed to play a strong developmental role. ⓒ 1995.
1995	Getting interventions right: how South Korea and Taiwan grew richMost explanations of Korea's and Taiwan's economic growth since the early 1960s place heavy emphasis on export orientation. It is difficult to see how export orientation could have played a significant causal role in these countries' growth. The measured increase in the relative profitably of exports during the 1960s is too insignificant to account for the export boom that ensued. Exports were initially too small to have a significant effect on aggregate economic performance. In the early 1960s both economies had an extremely well-educated labour force relative to their physical capital stock, rendering high latent returns to capital. By subsidizing and coordinating investment decisions, government policy managed to engineer a significant increase in the private return to capital. An exceptional degree of equality in income and wealth helped by rendering government intervention effective and keeping it free of rent seeking. The outward orientation of the economy was the result of the increase in demand for imported capital goods. -Author
1995	The tyranny of numbers: Confronting the statistical realities of the east asian growth experienceTThis paper documents the fundamental role played by factor accumulation in explaining the extraordinary postwar growth of Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan. Participation rates, educational levels, and (excepting Hong Kong) investment rates have risen rapidly in all four economies. In addition, in most cases there has been a large intersectoral transfer of labor into manufacturing, which has helped fuel growth in that sector. Once one accounts for the dramatic rise in factor inputs, one arrives at estimated total factor productivity growth rates that are closely approximated bythe historical performance of many of the OECD and Latin American economies. While the growth of output and manufacturing exports in the newly industrializing countries of East Asia is virtually unprecedented, the growth of total factor productivity in these economies is not. ⓒ 1995 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
1995	An analysis of the disaggregated manufacturing exports of the Asian NIEs to EEC, USA and JapanThis paper examines the export performance of the four Asian newly industrialized economies (NIEs) by modelling their bilateral export flows to three main OECD blocks: the USA, Japan, and the European Community. Our estimated export demand models reveal interesting asymmetries between these three areas of destination which do not emerge from previous aggregate empirical studies of NIE export performance. ⓒ 1995, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1995	Micro-level innovations and competitivenessThe reorganization of production within firms and the development of interfirm networks are currently much in fashion as elements of competitiveness. An analysis of developing-country experiences suggests that caution is required. Studies of intrafirm reorganization focus unduly on production and tend to assume that rapid improvements will lead to the attainment of international competitiveness. Evidence from Brazil suggests that even after improving performance, the competitiveness gap remains large. Further, an examination of the basis of the success of the East Asian newly industrialized countries shows that Taiwan and Korea diverge in important respects from the new orthodoxy of Just-in-Time and interfirm networking. ⓒ 1995.
1994	Economics vs. values in political trust in KoreaThis paper investigates the relationships between economic and/or value determinants and political trust using the 1985 Public Opinion Study for National Development in Korea conducted by the Korea Institute of Social Studies (KISS). Also examined are the relative effects of perceived personal financial situations and macro/collective economic conditions on levels of political trust to distinguish which one is more important in determining political trust in Korea. Results indicate that the trust in the political institutions and government performance depends on both personal financial security and national economic conditions. Equally important is the perception of how people think they have been treated. If Koreans perceive that they are being treated unfairly, they are likely to form, negative attitudes towards politics. We also found that, regardless of which party Koreans favor, if the government does not stabilize the economy, they do not hesitate to withdraw their support from it. ⓒ 1995 Springer.
1994	Ghana and south koreaThis article attempts to explain the reasons for the widening economic disparities between Ghana and South Korea from a 1957 level of near equal per-capita income. It builds upon the writing of Carl Rosberg, suggesting the need to go beyond for the factors stressed in the 1982 Jackson/Rosberg book: socialism, clientelism, and authoritarianism. In addition to an analysis of policy selection and orientation, three case studies are presented comparing program implementation (regarding rural development, industrial parks, and public enterprises), using political elasticity theory. While lack of political will, more than anything else, seems responsible for Ghana's slow economic progress, the search for additional explanations (inspired by Rosberg) must continue. ⓒ 1994 BRILL.
1994	Outside the den of dragons: The Philippines and the NICs of AsiaThe Phillippines is compared with Taiwan and South Korea on six factors, deemed in the literature to account for the economic success of the "little dragons" of Asia: colonial history, ties to the United States, class structures, state autonomy and efficacy, timing of industrialization, and culture. The theoretical implications of the comparative analysis in the study of development and underdevelopment in the Third World are considered, and the Marcos regime and the Aquino administration are evaluated in the light of the comparative analysis ⓒ 1994 Springer.
1994	Why did Koreans save so “little” and why do they now save so “much?”This paper uses a variable rate-of-growth model of life-cycle saving as developed by Fry and Mason (1982) to show that demographic factors were behind the rapid rise in saving in Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. The steady decline in the population dependency ratio in an environment of rapid economic growth was the determining factor driving the trend rise in savings in these three countries. Furthermore, demographic trends can also explain the difference in saving ratios in Japan, Korea, and Taiwan. When one compares these countries at the same stage in their development, Koreans did save “little” relative to Japan, but not relative to Taiwan, and this difference in saving can be explained by Korea's higher rate of dependency. ⓒ 1994, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1994	Changing labor market conditions and economic development in Hong Kong, the republic of Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan, ChinaIn the newly industrializing economies (NIEs) of Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan (China), the entire working population has benefited from labor market institutions. The East Asian NIEs attained and maintained generally full employment, improved their job mixes, raised real earnings, and lowered their rates of poverty.This article reaches two principal conclusions. First, labor market conditions continued to improve in all four economies in the 1980s at rates remarkably similar to their rates of aggregate economic growth. Second, labor market repression was not a major factor in the growth experiences of these economies in the 1980s. It thus appears that labor market repression is neither necessary nor desirable for outward-oriented economic development. ⓒ 1994 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1994	The changing roles of free economic zones in development: A comparative analysis of capitalist and socialist cases in East AsiaFree economic zones (FEZs) play important roles in industrialization and economic development of both capitalist and socialist countries in various regions of the world, and thus have become a major subject of study in the development literature. Theoretical debate and empirical analysis have focused narrowly on the positive and negative economic effects of export processing zones (EPZs) in capitalist Third World countries, without giving sufficient consideration to why, when, and how different types of FEZs in both capitalist and socialist economies adapt their roles in achieving development objectives under changing international and domestic conditions. In this article, I systematically compare the dynamic development roles of three FEZs in two different systems-the state capitalist economies of Taiwan and South Korea and the reforming socialist economy of China-during 1966-1990. The comparative findings are interpreted from competing and complementary perspectives of major development theories. Finally, I use the comparative evidence to refine a lifecycle model of the evolution and prospect of EPZs in capitalist newly industrializing countries, and suggest an alternative scenario for FEZs in socialist economies. ⓒ 1995 Springer.
1994	Ghana and South Korea: Explaining Development Disparities An Essay in Honor of Carl RosbergThis article attempts to explain the reasons for the widening economic disparities between Ghana and South Korea from a 1957 level of near equal per-capita income. It builds upon the writing of Carl Rosberg, suggesting the need to go beyond for the factors stressed in the 1982 Jackson/Rosberg book: socialism, clientelism, and authoritarianism. In addition to an analysis of policy selection and orientation, three case studies are presented comparing program implementation (regarding rural development, industrial parks, and public enterprises), using political elasticity theory. While lack of political will, more than anything else, seems responsible for Ghana's slow economic progress, the search for additional explanations (inspired by Rosberg) must continue. ⓒ 1994, Sage Publications. All rights reserved.
1994	Foreign output and price shocks and macroeconomic activity in KoreaThis paper examines the effects of foreign output and price shocks on output and the price level in Korea. The framework is a nine variable VAR model which includes output, price level, interest rate, real exchange rate, money supply, government expenditures, government debt, and foreign output and price variables. Foreign output and price effects are evaluated through computation of variance decompositions and impulse response functions. The variance decompositions indicate significant effects of foreign output on domestic output and significant effects of foreign prices on domestic output and the price level. The impulse response functions indicate positive short-run effects of foreign output on domestic output but insignificant effects on the price level while foreign price shocks have significant negative effects on output and significant positive effects on the price level for approximately two years. The results indicate the importance of including foreign shock variables when modeling the Korean economy. ⓒ 1994.
1994	Stock market interdependencies: Evidence from the asian NIEsNational asset markets have become more integrated in recent years. This paper investigates the interrelationship, if any, among the stock markets in four newly industrialized economies (NIEs) in Asia. The results indicate that a significant link exists between the stock markets of Hong Kong and Singapore and those of Japan and the United States. On the other hand, the markets with severe restrictions on cross-country investing, that is, Korea and Taiwan, are not responsive to innovations in foreign markets. Finally, the United States stock market influences, but is not influenced by, the four Asian markets. ⓒ 1994.
1994	Entrepreneurship in Taiwan and Korea: A ComparisonPrior to joining IIPS in 1992, Senior Research Fellow Masato Hayashida was a Senior Economist and Manager at The Mitsubishi Bank. His work at IIPS has focused on the economic development of of.Asian countries and Japan's relations in the Asia-Pacific region. ⓒ 1994, American Industrial Hygiene Association. All rights reserved.
1994	European and East Asian exceptionalism: Agriculture and economic growthAgriculture's role in development has traditionally been seen to be a provider of things to the modern industrial sector. In this paper it is argued that those countries which historically have succeeded as those which have, at least for some time period, nurtured agriculture. Bates has pointed out that this was the case for English agriculture and this paper argues that it was also the case for Japan during both the Tokugawa and Meiji periods. Japanese colonization of Korea and Taiwan assured that agriculture was also protected, at least prior to World War II, in these latter two countries. Finally, this paper argues that the key role of agriculture in industrialization is in terms of providing a growing market for manufactured goods. Copyright ⓒ 1994 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
1994	Interpretation and measurement of capacity utilization: The case of Korean manufacturingThis paper focuses attention on the conceptual difference between optimal (ex ante) and actual (ex post) capacity utilization (CU). The dynamic version of the efficient output approach to capacity utilization which this paper presents is theoretically superior to other alternative approaches. Our concept of optimal CU has been applied to estimate CU measures for Korean manufacturing. We find that our measure of CU explains the trends and cycles in Korean economy rather convincingly, and that Korean manufacturing has adjusted much more flexibly to market-demand shocks than it has to exogenous changes in factor prices. From the examination of the determinants of CU we find that, while wages and material prices have positive effects on CU, energy prices and capital stock have negative effects. The study also implies that overambitious government incentive policies to stimulate investment may have an adverse effect on capacity utilization. ⓒ 1994 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1994	Export?led Technology Development in the Four Dragons: The Case of ElectronicsTo date, little attention has been paid to the strategies of local firms in bringing about industrialization in Bast Asia. This article focuses on the methods by which domestic firms utilized foreign connections to overcome technology and market barriers in electronics. A simple market?technology model is developed as a first approximation of how domestic technology assimilation relates to export marketing in the four ‘Dragons' of East Asia (South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore). It proposes that export demand shaped the pace and pattern of technological progress in electronics in each of the four Dragons. Historical evidence shows that each country used a distinctive mix of direct and indirect export mechanisms to acquire technology and to enter international markets. Foreign buyers, transnational corporations (TNCs), original equipment manufacturer (OEM) arrangements, joint ventures and licensing deals were exploited by ‘latecomer’ firms to their market and technology advantage. Asian firms progressed from simple assembly tasks to more sophisticated product design and development capabilities, travelling ‘backwards' along the product life cycle of traditional innovation models. Today, leading Asian firms invest heavily in R&D and engage in partnerships with TNCs to acquire and develop advanced new electronics technologies. The technological progress of latecomers remains closely coupled to export demand through OEM and other institutional arrangements. ⓒ 1994 Institute of Social Studies
1994	Where do high growth political economies come from? The Japanese lineage of Korea's "developmental state"While many scholars have sought to analyze South Korea's economic success, not enough attention has been paid to the impact of Japanese colonialism. Japanese colonial influence on Korea in 1905-1945, while brutal and humiliating, was also decisive in shaping a political economy that later evolved into the high-growth South Korean path to development. More specifically, three state- society characteristics that we now readily associate as elements of the South Korean "model" originated during the colonial period: Korean state under the Japanese influence was transformed from a relatively corrupt and ineffective social institution into a highly authoritarian, penetrating organization, capable of simultaneously controlling and transforming Korean society; production-oriented alliances involving the state and dominant classes evolved, leading up to considerable expansion of manufacturing, including "exports" and the lower classes in both the city and the countryside came to be systematically controlled by the state and dominant classes. While there were important discontinuities following WWII, when the dust settled, South Korea under Park Chung-Hee fell back into the grooves of colonial origins and traveled along them, well into the 1980s. ⓒ 1994.
1994	Sectoral targeting: Auto manufacture in Korea and TaiwanPolicies to establish auto assembly were premature in both Taiwan and Korea: domestic demand in neither country was of an adequate size to support viable local production before the 1980s. Skill acquisition also lagged behind. Korea overcame the domestic market scale constraint in the mid?1980s by exploiting a fortuitous export opportunity before boosting domestic demand while simultaneously liberalizing auto imports. Taiwan shadowed Korean development with less consistency, less determination and less success. But the long?term benefits of entry are unclear: maturation rates have been too long while the diffusion of lean technology has shrunk the scope for exporting on a scale similar to Japan at a similar stage in its product cycle. Copyright ⓒ 1994 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
1994	The East Asia challenge to neoclassical orthodoxyThis article reviews The East Asian Miracle: Economic Growth and Public Policy which concludes that East Asian economic success has little to do with government. Using criteria similar to that used in the World Bank Report, this study shows that, contrary to World Bank contention, industrial policies used in East Asian economies have been effective, non-neoclassical tools for economic development with government complementing market factors by creating an environment conducive to economic growth. Given that Japan and Korea are the most representative examples of industrial policies, and that the report seems to acknowledge the success of the Japanese industrial policies, the present study confines itself largely to a discussion of Korean evidence. ⓒ 1994.
1994	There are at least three models of East Asian developmentThe World Bank study of the High Performing Asian Economies has gotten many of the basic lessons right. Central to this performance was the emphasis on the export of manufactures, the maintenance of macroeconomic stability, and a low level of inequality that, among other things, led to an emphasis on primary and secondary rather than tertiary education. But the study oversimplifies the lessons in important respects by trying to force three quite distinct models of development into a single format. The experience of laissez-faire Hong Kong, and to a lesser degree Singapore, is quite different from that of the interventionist states of Korea, Taiwan, and Japan, and these in turn vary significantly from the resource-rich countries of Southeast Asia. ⓒ 1994.
1994	The optimal degree of competition and dynamic efficiency in Japan and KoreaThis paper is concerned with the neglected role of competition policy in East Asian development. Michael Porter considers Japan's development to have benefitted from intense competition among firms. By contrast. Caves and Uekusa criticize MITI's role in creating recession cartels and entry barriers, which are thought to have resulted in allocative inefficiency. This paper argues that competition policy in both Japan and Korea was oriented towards creating dynamic efficiency (the highest long term productivity growth rate). It did so by measures, operating at both the industry and firm level, which sometimes restricted competition and sometimes encouraged it. ⓒ 1994.
1994	The East Asian miracle: Does the bell toll for industrial strategy?The World Bank's study of the role of governments in the Asian "miracle" economies has strengths. It acknowledges the extent of interventions, and draws some sound conclusions on macro-economic management, education and policy administration. On industrial policy, however, it is flawed. It makes false distinctions between "market-friendly" and selective interventions. It fails to address the market failures that affect industrial development and deepening, or to analyze how industrial strategies in Japan or Korea addressed those failures. It selectively uses data to show that industrial policies are undesirable. Its policy conclusions, supporting entrenched neoliberal views, are therefore misleading and biased. ⓒ 1994.
1994	A re-examination of the demand for money in small developing economiesThis paper re-examines the money-demand function in three small open economies of Asia: Korea, Pakistan and Singapore. In addition to using the relatively new procedure of error-correction modelling, the roles of variables such as (a) the expected change in the exchange rate, (b) foreign interest rates, and (c) foreign exchange risks on money demand are examined. In testing the importance of these variables in the money-demand function, special attention is paid to testing the assumptions of the classical linear regression model. The sample period for each country spans from 1973:1 through 1990:1. The empirical results suggest that the error-correction specification performs very well. In addition to the traditional variables, the results suggest that at least some measure of foreign monetary developments appear to have some significant effect on money-demand behaviour in these small developing economies. ⓒ 1994, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1994	Black and official exchange rates in the Pacific Basin countries: An analysis of their long-run dynamicsThis paper examines the long-run dynamic relationship between black and official markets for seven Pacific Basin countries over the period 1974 to 1989. The evidence shows a long-run unit proportionality between the two rates, i.e. a constant long-run black-market premium. When the premium deviates from its long-run value, the black-market rate adjusts to eliminate the deviation. The speed of adjustment varies and seems to depend on the financial development of the country. Finally, there is evidence of weak-form informational inefficiency in the black markets. ⓒ 1994 Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1994	Exports and economic growth in Asian NICs: An econometric analysis for KoreaNew growth theory has emphasized the role of human capital and economies of scale in promoting sustained growth. This paper discusses the sources of rapid growth in Asian newly industrializing countries (NICs) in recent times by applying some econometric tests of new growth theory. The Korean economy is considered as an example of the successful NICs in Asia, where three types of empirical tests are applied based on the modern theory of cointegration, the dominal role of demand and the existence of significant scale economies due to human capital. The empirical growth profile of Korea in recent times seems to vindicate the broad tenets of the new growth theory. ⓒ 1994 Chapman & Hall Ltd. All rights reserved.
1994	East Asian NIC manufactured intra-industry trade 1965-1990This paper examines the intra-industry trade of the four East Asian Newly Industrialized Countries (Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan) with European markets, Japan and the United States over the period 1965-1990. Five hypotheses are tested: (1) the effects of product differentiation; (2) the presence of scale economies; (3) the broadening of economic bases as the country's GNP increases; (4) the influence of multinational corporations (MNCs); and (5) the income-similarity (Linder) Hypothesis. The paper notes the empirical relevance of Inter-Industry trade for NIC exports, and finds empirical support for several theoretical explanations of this phenomenon. (JEL F14). ⓒ 1994.
1993	The Permanent Export Hypothesis And Foreign Trade Of A Centrally Planned Economy: A Case Study Of North KoreaHuge outstanding debts of Third World Centrally Planned Economies(CPEs) notwithstanding, their trades with industrialized countries have been continuing briskly. In order to safeguard against an aggravation of current debts of the CPE, however, an industrialized country determines annually the maximum amount of imports permitted for a CPE on the basis of the CPE's permanent exports. This paper attempts to develop a permanent export model and apply it to the foreign trade of North Korea. [F 14]. ⓒ 1993, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1993	Labor markets and adjustment in open asian economies: The republic of Korea and MalaysiaThis article deals with the adjustment following external shocks in two open Asian economies: the Republic of Korea and Malaysia. There were important differences in the economic structure of the two countries as well as significant differences in the way external events produced "crises" that interrupted their dynamic economic growth. Detailed analyses of economic cycles in the two decades preceding 1987-88 show that the behavior of factor markets, particularly the markets for labor and foreign exchange, helped Korea to adjust quickly to the shocks but in Malaysia actually caused the crisis to deepen.For economies heavily dependent on exports, the unit cost of labor in dollars is of central importance as an index of the competitiveness of exports and hence of their ability to mount a sustained recovery after a difficult period. Accordingly, the heart of the analysis is the determination of the unit cost of labor and the factors affecting its change throughout the cycles. Concentration on this critical variable helps to spotlight the crucial differences in the factor markets of the two economies. ⓒ 1993 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/THE WORLD BANK.
1993	Unanticipated Money, Output, Employment and Prices in a Deyeloing Economy: The Korean CaseThis paper examines the effect of unanticipated money on output, unemployment and prices in Korea. The empirical results tend to reject the policy ineffectiveness proposition (PIP) in most cases. They show that both anticipated and unanticipated money affect output and prices, in contrast with the PIP. Mixed results are obtained for the effect of monetary variables on unemployment. The statistical results show that the regular OLS two step estimates yield t values which are upward biased by 0-27% as compared with the consistent estimates of the variance-covariance matrix that are obtained in this study. [E 51]. ⓒ 1993, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1993	Book ReviewsBook reviewed in this articles: Technological Change in China Conroy, Richard Agriculture and Trade in the Pacific: toward the twenty?first century William T. Coyle, Dermot Hayes and Hiroshi Yamauchi (eds) Australia's Business Challenge: Southeast Asia in the 1990s Agricultural Research in China: its institutional development and impact , Shenggen Fan and Philip G. Pardey Labor and Economic Growth in Five Asian Countries: South Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan, Thailand and the Philippines , Walter Galenson Informal Finance: some findings from Asia Prabhu Ghate et al. The Agrarian Origins of Commerce and Industry: a study of peasant marketing in Indonesia Yujiro Hayami and Toshihiko Kawagoe Chinese Enterprise Management: reforms in economic perspective Sukhan Jackson The Challenge of Reform in Indochina Bøje Ljunggren (ed.) Resources and Environment in Asia's Marine Sector James Barney Marsh (ed.) The Population of Modern China Dudley L. Poston Jr and David Yaukey (eds) Employment generation through private entrepreneurship in Vietnam Per Ronnas Development Planning in Asia Somsak Tambunlertchai and S. P. Gupta (eds) Race to the Swift: state and finance in Korean industrialization Jung?en Woo Indonesia: health planning and budgeting Copyright ⓒ 1993, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1993	Implications for the Asia-Pacific region of coordination of macroeconomic policies in the OECDThe empirical evidence on the gains from coordinating macroeconomic policies in the major economies suggests that the gains to these economies of coordination are quite small. In an earlier study, Sachs and McKibbin found that although this was the case in the industrial economies, there were potentially substantial gains to the developing countries from coordinating policies in the Organization for Cooperation and Development in the case of a global disinflation, as was experienced in the early 1980s. The purpose of the current paper is to explore this issue further by focusing on the differential impacts on the dynamic Asian economies (Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan) and a subgroup of ASEAN nations (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand) of coordinated versus uncoordinated policy responses in the OECD. We focus on the transmission of a major fiscal adjustment in the United States under alternative policy responses in the OECD: a money rule, nominal income targeting, noncooperative monetary policy, and cooperative monetary policy, the latter two regimes being defined by solving for dynamic game equilibria given welfare functions in the industrial economies. We find that when the industrial economies either noncooperatively or cooperatively adjust monetary policy in the face of a fiscal contraction in the United States, they tend to follow expansionary monetary policy, which results in the export of U.S. unemployment to the two Asian regions under the current policy regimes in those regions. ⓒ 1993.
1993	Economic development and inflation: Lessons from the Korean experienceEconomists continue to debate if inflation is a necessary corollary to an economic strategy for rapid development. This paper draws upon the experience of Korea since 1962 when Korea embarked upon an accelerated economic development plan. The GNP of Korea has grown rapidly at the annual average rate of 8.7 percent from 1962 to 1991. The five phases of inflation in Korea are: (1) Inflation at the Outset of Development Planning; (2) Formation of Inflationary Structure; (3) Deepening of Inflation; (4) Stabilization of Inflation, and (5) recent resurgence of inflation. The paper discusses several specific issues in this context, (a) Money Supply and Inflation; (b) Cost-Push Factors and Inflation; (c) Inevitability of Growth-derived Inflation; and (d) Inflation and Income Distribution in Korea. ⓒ 1993.
1993	Graduation from the U.S. GSP-a comparative study of the East Asian newly industrializing economiesThis paper is a follow-up of an earlier paper in which we used the Baldwin and Murray (1977) model to assess the trade-creation and trade-diversion effects of graduation from U.S. GSP on Singapore. In this paper we extend the study to include Hong Kong, South Korea, and Taiwan. Our estimates indicate that, as in the case of Singapore, graduation from U.S. GSP did not adversely impact Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan to any significant extent in terms of loss of trade benefits. Our estimates of loss of trade benefits, however, omitted trade diversion to other beneficiaries of the U.S. GSP. The broader implications of graduation that concerned Singapore, viz., graduation to developed-country status and relocation of manufacturing firms to lower-cost countries, were applicable, in varying degrees, to the other NIEs. None of the NIEs are ready for developed-country status, not even South Korea, which is being considered for membership in the OECD. The other three NIEs were also concerned that the increase in costs arising from graduation, even though slight, might accelerate the relocation of firms that was already taking place as a result of cost escalations due to currency appreciation and rising wage rates. South Korea and Taiwan also feared that graduation could usher in further U. S. pressures on trade and other economic liberalization issues and treatment of the NIEs as "little Japans." (JEL F13). ⓒ 1993.
1993	QUALITY ISSUES FOR KOREAN MANUFACTURING INDUSTRYSummary Rising wages and an appreciating exchange rate currency forced Korean exporters of manufactured goods to try to move up?market at the end of the 1980s. This involves improving both product specification and conformance to standards. The Korean government is actively promoting improved quality systems in manufacturing as a means of enhancing competitiveness. Large Korean firms have much in their favour in this area ? particularly their technological competence and a well?educated labour force. However, poor industrial relations and the poor quality of smaller supplier firms are obstacles which need to be overcome if Korea is to compete with advanced industrial countries in terms of quality. Resume L'augmentation des salaires et l'appreciation de la devise coreenne ont force les exportateurs Coreens d'articles fabriques en usine a tenter, vers la fin des annees 1980, un rehaussement qualitatif vers le haut?de?gamme. Cecia fait appel a une double amelioration: celle de la specification meme des produits, et celle de leur conformite aux normes. Le gouvernement coreen cherche actuellement a promouvoir les systemes de qualite dans la fabrication comme moyen de mise en valeur de la competivite. Dans ce domaine, les entreprises de grande envergure possedent beaucoup d'atouts, notamment en ce qui concerne leurs aptitudes technologiques et la disponibilite d'une force ouvriere hautement eduquee. Toutefois, les faibles relations industrielles et la faible qualite des fournisseurs de moindre envergure representent des obstacles qu'il faudra imperativement vaincre si la Coree veut concourir, au niveau de la qualite, avec les pays industriels avances. Resumen El alza de los salarios y el aumento en el tipo de cambio forzaron a los exportadores coreanos de productos manufacturados a tratar de mejorar la calidad al final de la decada del 80. Esto supone mejorar tanto las especificaciones del producto como la conformidad a las pautas de calidad. El gobierno de Corea esta promoviendo activamente sistemas perfeccionados de calidad en la fabricacion como un medio para estimular la competitividad. Las companias grandes tienen mucho a su favor en esta area ? particularmente su capacidad tecnologica y su personal bien adiestrado. Sin embargo, las relaciones industriales insatisfactorias y la baja calidad en las pequenas companias proveedoras son obstaculos que necesitan ser superados si Corea espera competir con paises industriales avanzados en terminos de calidad. ⓒ 1993 Institue of Development Studies
1993	Economic development and time preference schedule. The case of Japan and East Asian NICsThe constancy of the time preference rate has been a traditional assumption of the literature on intertemporal choice of consumers. This paper examines empirically the validity of the constancy hypothesis of the time preference schedule. Three alternative hypotheses concerning the time preference rate are investigated. These hypotheses specify the time preference schedule as a function of the income level in a different manner. Post-war annual time series data from Taiwan, Japan, and Korea are employed to examine these hypotheses. ⓒ 1993.
1993	Organizational behaviour of TNCs and industrialization for balanced local and regional development in the Republic of KoreaThis article presents the findings of a study on the operations of selected transnational corporations (TNCs) in the Republic of Korea. The three types of TNCs selected for this study are American, Japanese, and European. The operations of each type of TNC were analysed and compared with domestic firms in the Republic of Korea. The main objectives of this study are to understand and analyse: the managerial characteristics and practices of American, Japanese, and European TNCs; the impact made by TNCs on Korean firms with respect to technological transfer and other contributions to local firms; and the influence of the policies of the Government of the Republic of Korea, such as the foreign direct investment (FDI) policy, on the operations of the TNCs. There are comments on this article by B. Hope and Y. Minagawa. -from Authors
1993	External shocks and structural adjustments in east Asian newly industrializing economiesThe two oil price increases and the subsequent recessions in the industrial countries in the 1970s constituted large external shocks for the trade?dependent East Asian newly industrializing economies (NIEs). The effects of these external shocks on their balance of payments were two?fold. First, the higher price of oil meant deteriorations of terms of trade and hence increases in import bills. The second impact was recession?induced declines in the volume of exports. The recession also added to the protectionist pressures, especially against labour?intensive exports of the NIEs. Therefore, there was a secondary decline in the demand for the NIE's exports. Unlike many other developing countries, however, the East Asian NIEs have coped with such large external shocks quite remarkably. In less than a decade they have been able to turn their current account deficits into surpluses. By using a framework developed by Salter and Corden, this paper seeks to examine the nature of the East Asian NIEs adjustment experience. The East Asian NIEs responded to external shocks with a policy package which included downward adjustments in exchange rates and reductions in absorption, especially public consumption. In the short run the depreciation of their currencies improved competitiveness and discouraged imports. It also switched expenditure away from tradables freeing goods for exports. While these short?run adjustments improved their current accounts, the long?run adjustments were crucial in sustaining these improvements and eventually producing surpluses in current accounts. In the longer run, depreciations of their currencies switched the production structure of Korea ? and to some extent that of Taiwan ? towards tradables. Hong Kong and Singapore were relatively less successful in restructuring their economy towards the traded sector. In the case of Singapore it was perhaps due to an excessive emphasis on the home?ownership scheme. In Hong Kong the tying of Hong Kong dollar to that of the US led to a substantial appreciation of the currency when the US dollar rose in the early 1980s. Nevertheless, they were relatively more successful than most other developing countries. This paper suggests that this was due to their ability to regulate the labour market which, in turn, enhanced the switching effect of devaluation. Copyright ⓒ 1993 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd
1992	Dilemmas and choices in educational policies: The case of South Korea and TaiwanIn the face of a similar challenge for economic development, South Korea and Taiwan differed greatly in their approaches to educational reform. South Korea permitted a rapid expansion in educational system, allowed the development of academic education, and pursued a relatively high tuition policy for higher education. In contrast, Taiwan controlled the growth of education, promoted vocational education, and maintained a relatively low tuition policy for higher education. Political dynamics, rather than economic efficiency considerations, explain the divergent choices in the educational reforms of these two countries. ⓒ 1993 Springer.
1992	Financial mobilization and allocation: The South Korean caseThere are two major competing views on how financial resources may best be mobilized and allocated to accelerate economic growth of developing countries. One emphasizes the importance of competitive financial markets; the other stresses the role of the developmental state. This study examines one of the world's fastest-growing economies during the past few decades, that of South Korea, focusing on its experience with financial resources mobilization and allocation. It finds that a state-centered approach provides a better, albeit imperfect, account of the South Korean postwar experience, in which the state has assiduously influenced the access to, and cost, of, available financial resources, going far beyond merely "getting the prices right." ⓒ 1993 Springer.
1992	Small business and industrialisation in South KoreaSmall firms make a significant contribution to the overall performance of the Korean economy and they should play an increasing role in its necessary diversification up to the turn of the century. However, most research attention, decision-making and operational action have concentrated so far on the further promotion of the big Korean conglomerates. This paper suggests a few tentative observations on the role of small businesses in the industrial experience of South Korea. ⓒ 1992 Faculty of Business Administration National University of Singapore.
1992	Reverse brain drain in South Korea: State-led modelKorea's reverse brain drain (RBD) has been an organized government effort, rather than a spontaneous social phenomenon, in that various policies and the political support of President Park, Chung-Hee were instrumental in laying the ground work for its success. Particular features of Korea's RBD policies are the creation of a conducive domestic environment (i.e., government-sponsored strategic R & D institution-building, legal and administrative reforms), and importantly, the empowerment of returnees (via, i.e., exceptionally good material benefits, guarantees of research autonomy). President Park played the cardinal role in empowering repatriates at the expense of his own civil bureaucracy, and his capacity for such patronage derived from Korea's bureaucratic-authoritarian political system. Returning scientists and engineers directly benefited from this political system as well as Park's personal guardianship. For Park, empowerment of returning "brains" was necessary to accomplish his national industrialization plan, thereby enhancing his political legitimacy in domestic politics. An alliance with the R & D cadre was functionally necessary to successfully consolidate strong presidential power, and politically non-threatening due to the particular form of "pact of domination" in Korea's power structure. RBD in Korea will continue in the near future given Korea's drive for high technology, and the remarkable expansion of local industrial and educational sectors. Korea's future RBD, however, needs to pay closer attention to the following four problems: research autonomy; equality issues; skill-based repatriation of technicians and engineers rather than Ph.D.'s; and subsidies to small and medium industry for RBD. ⓒ 1992 Springer.
1992	Consumer demand with variable preferences in taiwan: an application of the generalized Fechner-Thurstone direct utility functionTime series data on five consumer commodity groups for Taiwan are analyzed using the generalized Fechner-Thurstone direct utility function. Income and price-demand elasticities are derived from unconstrained maximum likelihood estimates of the constant elasticities of marginal rates of substitutions. The elasticities are similar to those obtained for Taiwan using a translog indirect utility function. However, the estimates obtained for Taiwan are significantly different from those reported by other researchers for South Korea and the United States which serves as an indication of differences in the stages of economic development between the economies. ⓒ 1992.
1992	The government, financial system, and large private enterprises in the economic development of South KoreaThe paper investigates the main characteristics of the government-business relationship in South Korea in the past three decades to find out how it may have contributed to South Korea's economic development. It proposes that the government and large private enterprises in South Korea should be viewed as constituting an internal organization, namely a quasi-internal organization. As such, extensive intervention by the government with South Korea's financial system can be viewed as an internal capital market and, consequently, it could have led to a more efficient allocation of credit than possible in a free-market financial system. It also argues that the quasi-internal organization has made it possible for the government to efficiently implement its developmental policies. It is, however, pointed out that for the quasi-internal organization to be successful in accelerating the pace of economic development the country must have a political leadership committed to the goal of economic development and must adopt an outward-oriented development policy. ⓒ 1992.
1992	Industrial systems and reform in North Korea: A comparison with ChinaThis paper describes the North Korean economic system and identifies recent reform efforts. The North Korean reform effort since the mid-1980s has been motivated by the increasing seriousness of the problems typical of centrally planned socialist economies. By analogy with the Chinese reform experience, this paper evaluates the effectiveness of North Korean reform measures. Since there is nothing innovative about the North Korean reform measures, most of which were tried in other socialist economies, their impacts are quite limited. ⓒ 1992.
1992	Japanese rice policy in the interwar period: Some consequences of imperial self sufficiencyDuring the interwar period Japan achieved its stated objective of imperial self sufficiency in rice, but it involved the empire's barriers to imports of foreign rice becoming increasingly protective. A model of the empire's rice market is used to estimate the production, consumption, trade and welfare effects of that policy. It is shown that the policy was an extraordinarily inefficient means of transferring welfare to producers from consumers/taxpayers. The policy was especially harmful to poor consumers in the colonies of Korea and Taiwan because it raised the price and reduced the availability of less-preferred but potentially much cheaper Indica rice from Southeast Asia. ⓒ 1992.
1992	How to make ‘Street Level’ Bureaucracies Work Better: India and KoreaSummary The ‘new economics of organization’, with its picture of bureaucracies as aggregates of dyadic contracts between ‘principals’ and ‘agents’, finds it difficult to explain why departments of police, education, health, agricultural extension or irrigation ? ‘street level bureaucracies’ for short ? do any work at all. A comparison between Indian and Korean ways of organizing the operation and maintenance of canals shows how the Korean structure generates more commitment and co?operation on the part of the staff, partly by using devices that are distinctly un?Weberian. The comparison suggests options to be considered in any discussion of Indian reform, and also highlights some conceptual weaknesses of the new economics of organization. Resume Comment rendre meilleure l'operation des bureaucraties au niveau de la rue: l'Inde et la Coree La nouvelle economie de l'organisation et sa representation des bureaucraties comme etant l'agregation de contrats dyactiques liant les commettants et les agents, trouve du mal a expliquer pourquoi les departements de la police, de l'education, de la sante, de l'extension agricole ou de l'irrigation ? les bureaucraties niveau rue, pour ainsi dire ? s'efforcent de faire quoi que ce soit. Une comparaison entre les facons de faire les choses en Inde et dans la Coree au niveau de l'operation et de l'entretien des canaux demontre par quel moyen la structure coreenne genere plus d'engagement et de cooperation parmi le personnel, en partie par l'exploitation d'outils qui sont clairement non?Weberiens. La comparaison met en lumiere des options auxquelles il y aurait lieu de reflechir dans toute discussion de la reforme en Inde, et souligne aussi certaines faiblesses conceptuelles de la nouvelle economie de l'organisation. Resumen Como hacer funcionar mejor a las burocracias a nivel de calle: India y Corea La ‘nueva’ economia de le organizacion' con su imagen de las burocracias como simples agregados a los contratos entre ‘principales’ y ‘agentes’, encuentra muy dificil justificar la funcion de departamentos como policia, educacion, salud, extension agricultural o irrigacion ? burocracias a nivel de calle?. Una comparacion entre la forma de organizar la operacion y mantenimiento de canales en India y Corea demuestra que la estructura coreana genera mas compromiso y cooperacion de parte del personal, usando recursos obviamente anti?Weberianos. La comparacion sugiere opciones a ser consideradas en cualquier discusion sobre reformas en la India, y tambien destaca algunas debilidades conceptuales de la nueva economia de la organizacion. ⓒ 1992 Institue of Development Studies
1992	Foreign direct investment for industrial restructuringIndustrial restructuring (IR) generally refers to a process of altering the industrial sector of an economy in order to improve its efficiency in resource allocation and utilization. This process frequently involves intersectoral shifts in the composition of output, employment, and investment. It could also include changes in the functioning of the product markets and in the interindustry linkages. This article will examine the role of foreign direct investment (FDI) as an IR tool. During the second half of the 1980s, FDI played an important role in the IR of both home and host countries in East and Southeast Asia. This article reviews the process and analyses the factors behind FDI flows and IR in Asia in the 1980s. The second part of the article focuses on the case of Korean FDI activities and analyses the role of FDI as a facilitator of IR. There is a comment by Wong Shuang Yann on pp 64-66. -from Authors
1992	Rural poverty in the Republic of Korea: trends and policy issuesThe existence of significant relative poverty is mainly the result of the export-oriented and unbalanced development strategy pursued which has resulted in the concentration of national resources and infrastructure in the capital city and a few metropolitan urban areas. In spite of unbalanced development and inequality, the experience of South Korea has been evaluated as a successful economic development model for a number of reasons: the country was one of the few which escaped from chronic poverty and underdevelopment after World War II; the inequality problem is not as serious as in other developing countries undergoing economic growth; and the quality of life has improved significantly through GNP growth even though there exists a wide development gap between rural and urban areas. -from Authors
1992	Urban development and transportation in Seoul metropolitan areaAn integrated subway-oriented Seoul Metropolitan Area (SMA) transportation system is the primary target being pursued in Seoul. Confronted with serious road traffic congestion and increasing car ownership among the middle-income class, the city government drew up a subway expansion plan for the year 2001, which is designed to be coordinated with future residential development projects. However, the investment plan for subway expansion does not deal with the redevelopment projects in the CBD, mainly because of the complexity of land acquisition in developed areas. The tight restraint over car ownership so far, is in the process of being somewhat relaxed under the pressure of people and industry. The approach is shifting towards making driving more costly, through high license fees and high taxes on fuel, and by enforcing the use of certain tyres to discourage driving. -from Authors
1992	Korean telecommunications development: Achievements and cautionary lessonsTelecommunications in South Korea have grown rapidly under an aggressive government strategy with three components: massive investment in telecommunications network; alliances among government research institutions, business, and the academic community; and policy measures to foster efficiency in managing the telecommunications sector. Among the accomplishments are a modern network, the development of Time Division Electronic Switching (TDX) technology, and rapid growth of value-added services. The Korean path may not be the one to replicate - changes in technology mean it is now possible to do in a more decentralized way, with greater private participation, what previously had been undertaken through the government. ⓒ 1992.
1991	Exchange rates and South Korean exports to OECD countriesThis study evaluates the major determinants of aggregate South Korean exports to the US, Japan, and the EC during the 1970s and 80s. The model focuses on economic growth in the three economies, relative prices that are influenced by exchange rates, and Korean domestic supply developments. A notable result of the econometric analysis is the fairly wide variability in elasticity estimates across the three economies, for both reduced form and structural formulations. The US tends to have a higher income elasticity of export demand; Europe has a higher (in absolute value) direct price elasticity of demand. Consistently positive cross exchange rate and price elasticities are somewhat surprising - though they may be explained by complementarity in demand and the large role of imported inputs in Korean production. ⓒ 1991, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1991	Growth and distribution: A test of the induced innovation hypothesis for the Korean economyThis study investigates technical change biases and their effects on distributive shares in Korea. We are particularly concerned with whether technical change biases have been induced by changes in relative factor prices accompanied by rapid economic growth in Korea. Our test results show that technical change in Korea has been biased in the direction of saving labour and using capital, thus rendering support to the induced innovation hypothesis. These findings are roughly in parallel with empirical studies on the induced innovation hypothesis for the US and Japanese economies. The similar pattern in technical change biases between Korea and the two advanced economies is noteworthy in light of their basic differences in factor endowments. Another salient feature of our empirical analysis is that the price-corrected labour share in Korea has continually shrunk in the process of rapid economic growth, which has been partly precipitated by factor price-distorting policies. ⓒ 1991, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1991	Performance and adaptive roles of the government-supported research institute in South KoreaThis paper analyzes the performance and adaptive roles of the Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST). During the past two decades, KIST has made significant contributions to the scientific, technological, and industrial development of South Korea. Based on normative and descriptive analyses, this paper concludes that KIST should now shift its institutional position to that of a future-oriented multidisciplinary research institute, adapting to the growing need for indigenous research and development  directed toward core and original high-technology development, the increased need for collaborative research with industries, and role duplications among government-supported research institutes (GRIs) and private R&D institutions. ⓒ 1991.
1991	An examination of the objectives of monetary policy in four developing economiesThis paper presents a model of monetary policy in developing economies, which is estimated for Mexico, Korea, India and Zambia. The model is designed to identify both the goals and patterns of policy in these economies. The results demonstrate that the authorities in these economies respond to foreign reserve flows, partially sterilizing their impact in three countries. They also respond to domestic variables, accomodating seasonal variation and growth or price changes. ⓒ 1991.
1991	Diffusion of development: the late-industrializing model and greater East AsiaA striking feature of late industrialization is its regional bias. East Asia, both north and south, has encompassed many of the fastest industrializing countries, including Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Thailand. Between 1960 and 1988, industry grew annually by 10.6% in East Asia, but by only 6.3% in all developing regions. East Asian growth has not been uniform; the Philippine's performance has lagged. For over a decade the Philippines promoted exports, a policy that is sometimes credited with greater East Asia's success. Between 1973-80 and 1980-86, the Philippine's ratio of manufactured exports to manufactured value-added nearly doubled, but its economy stagnated. Thus, the key to understanding East Asia's success must be sought beyond export activity. The author dismisses the "flying geese' explanation, and outlines two other potential models: an institutional model and a market-oriented model. -after Author
1991	Multinationals, state enterprises and heavy industry: from Girvan to BlitzerHCI attracted much developing country investment, especially through the 1970s but the results were disappointing. Caribbean efforts to boost the domestic stimulus from existing HCI proved counter-productive while the oil-exporting countries' windfall deployment for new HCI caused a substantial misallocation of scarce resources. Even the largest NICs encountered sizeable costs in the pursuit of HCI in terms of consumption foregone. The scale economies and long gestation periods of HCI make it a risky strategy which strains developing country implementation capacity. The risks were further increased in the 1970s by a nationalism which encouraged premature entry and reduced the scope for beneficial participation by MNC equity partners. However, Korean experience set new "best practice' for HCI and post-1985 Mexico suggests Korea may be emulated in other cultural regions. Even so, recent trends in technology and global trade reduce the imperative and attraction of an HCI policy. -Author
1991	Small?Scale Industry in the Asian?Pacific RegionSmall?scale industry has been important in the successful development of many of the economies of East and Southeast Asia, both in cases like Japan, Korea and Taiwan where import?substitution preceeded and/or accompanied the manufactured exporting phase, and in Hang Kong, the only essentially laissez faire economy in the region. An important general characteristic of the small?scale sector, and one long commented upon in the Japanese case, is the prevalence of subcontracting relationships either with larger manufacturing firms or with traders. There is considerable evidence of economic efficiency in the sector, especially perhaps in the medium?size range. Although some types of policy support appear to have paid off well, others appear not to have, so it is clear that such support must be both well thought out and carefully implemented if it is to have the hoped?for result. Copyright ⓒ 1991, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1991	Convergence of South Korean productivity on West German levels, 1966-1978South Korean labor productivity in manufacturing converged rapidly on the productivity level in West German manufacturing during the period 1966-1978, achieving two-thirds of the German level by 1978. This convergence was more rapid at the industry level than for all manufacturing. The capital-labor ratio and total factor productivity in South Korean manufacturing also converged on West German levels during this period, with the former accounting for two-thirds, and the latter, one-third, of the labor productivity convergence. The source of labor productivity convergence, however, differed greatly across industries, with capital deepening the dominant source in heavy industries, and total factor productivity  convergence the main source in light industries. ⓒ 1991.
1991	The Political Economy of Industrialization: A Comparison of Latin American and East Asian Newly Industrializing CountriesABSTRACT The paper analyses the industrial performance of two East Asian (South Korea and Taiwan) and three Latin American (Argentina, Brazil and Mexico) newly industrializing countries. It argues that the better performance in East Asia is not due simply to differences in trade orientation or the degree of state intervention, but rather to the effectiveness of intervention. This is explained in terms of the relative autonomy of the state and the structuring of the state apparatus in the two regions. The historically determined class structure and the international context led to much greater state autonomy in East Asia than in Latin America. The last part of the paper shows a number of ways in which this greater relative autonomy has contributed to rapid industrial growth in East Asia in comparison with Latin America. ⓒ 1991 Institute of Social Studies
1990	The New Protectionism: The Welfare Effects of Simultaneous Quantitative Restrictions on An Exporting CountryThis paper develops a theoretical framework based on the Marshallian partial-equilibrium approach to measure the welfare effects of quantitative restrictions on exporting countries when their exports are quantitatively restricted by several importing countries simultaneously. The practical methodology developed here is applied to measure the costs of two major protectionist measures imposed by industrial countries on imports of nonrubber footwear. The OMAs are found not to be detrimental to Korea in the aggregate, mainly because of quota rents to Korean producers being derived from higher prices in the restricted markets. Countervailing duties significantly harmed the Brazilian economy. ⓒ 1990, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1990	Adjustment Under Uncertainty with Computable General Equilibrium Models: General Theory and An Application to KoreaEconomic policy formulation in the presence of uncertainty is studied in a general equilibrium framework using techniques adapted from the theory of stochastic optimal control. The structure of the economy is represented by a dynamic computable general equilibrium model. Adjustment rules are derived by minimizing an expected loss function whose arguments are the deviations of a set of targets from an intended time path. Adjustment matrices are derived to provide ex ante rules for automatic policy response to unexpected fluctuations in economic conditions which keep target variables near their intended paths. ⓒ 1990, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1990	Voluntary export restraints and resource allocation in exporting countriesThis article analyzes the resource implications of voluntary export restraints (VERs) for exporting countries. A simple analytical method is used to demonstrate that, by reducing the marginal revenue of its factors of production, a VER causes an industry in the exporting country to contract, and that the efficiency losses from a VER depend on the ease with which sales can be diverted from the restricted toward the unrestricted markets. The method is applied to test the effects of the U.S. Orderly Marketing Agreement (OMA) for producers of leather footwear in the Republic of Korea during the period 1977-81. We estimate that the marginal revenue product of factors employed in leather footwear declined by as much as 9 percent because of the OMA, an estimate that is corroborated by inspection of time series on output, employment, and wages of the Korean footwear sector. This implies that there was pressure on the Korean footwear industry to contract as a result of the OMA. ⓒ 1990 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1990	Book ReviewsBook reviewed in this articles: Asia's Next Giant: South Korea and Late Industrialization. By Alice M. Amsden. Fisheries development Economics of Fishery Management in the Pacific Islands Region. Edited by H. Campbell; K. Menz and G. Waugh. Regional co?operation ASEAN Industrial Co?operation: Future Perspectives and an Alternative Scheme. Edited by Chee Peng Lim and Jang?Won Sun. China's Social Economic Zones The Political Economy of China's Special Economic Zones. By George T. Crane. Australia's relations with Asia Australia and the Northeast Asian Ascendancy. By Ross Garnaut. Economic success in East Asia Achieving Industrialization in East Asia. Edited by Helen Hughes. Paradoxes in PNG economy Growth, Structural Change and Economic Policy in Papua New Guinea: Implications for Agriculture. By Frank G. Jarrett and Kym Anderson. History of banking in East Asia The Hong Kong Bank in the Period of Imperialism and War, 1895?1918. Volume II of the History of the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. By Frank H. H. King with David J. S. King and Catherine E. King. Mercantilism vs. classical economics National Economics. By Alejandro Lichauco. Thai economic history Economic Development of Thailand, 1850?1950: Response to the Challenge of the World Economy. By Sompop Manarungsan. Predictable catastrophe City on the Rocks: Hong Kong's Uncertain Future. By Kevin Rafferty. Mouldering Pearl: Hong Kong at the Crossroads. By Felix Patrikeef. Development of Singapore's economy Management of Success: The Moulding of Modern Singapore. Edited by Kernial Singh Sandhu and Paul Wheatley. Economics of food Food Price Policy in Asia: A Comparative Study. Edited by Terry Sicular. Development economics Proceedings of the World Bank Annual Conference on Development Economics 1989. Copyright ⓒ 1990, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1990	Korean financial liberalization. Lessons from the Japanese experienceFinancial liberalization in Korean and Japan is compared. Japan is not a model for Korea; however, Japan has achieved a successful financial reform process that should not go unnoticed by Korea. Several implications for Korea can be drawn from Japan's experience: price stability is a necessary condition for successful financial liberalization, banks and other financial institutions should not be burdened with government credit allocation policies, and minimal developments in the money market are required for effective monetary policy. ⓒ 1990.
1990	Imperfect competition and returns to scale in a newly industrialising economy. A general equilibrium analysis of Korean trade policyA general equilibrium analysis of industrial protection in Korea is presented using a model which incorporates imperfect competition and scale economies. The results suggest that, in spite of the strong performance of the Korean economy, significant additional income (of about 7% of GDP) might have been generated (via lengthened production runs and increased labour productivity in manufacturing) had less distortionary policies been used. Some of the observed distortions may, however, have been essential to sustain stable political coalitions. While this has not been taken into account, the analysis nevertheless lends support to the view that industrial organisation is particularly important in analysing trade reforms in newly industrialising countries, even though the best reforms are still those which balance incentives within and across sectors. ⓒ 1990.
1990	Development lessons from Asia: the role of government in South Korea and TaiwanSouth Korea and Taiwan share common structural characteristics and export-led industrialization. The Taiwan government has been supportive rather than interventionist, whereas the Korean government has been collaborative and even coercive in relations with the private sector. Government in both countries helped launch and sustain the export-led strategy, taking into consideration the initial conditions in industrial organization and structure, capital markets and trade. Although the strategy contributed to export development, once put in place, the respective governments have been unwilling and unable to adjust their role to changing circumstances. -from Author
1990	Emerging urban-regional linkages in Pusan region, Republic of KoreaOver the last three decades, the Republic of Korea has experienced remarkable economic growth and substantial spatial change. The concentration of population and economic activities in the large urban centres is one of the most dominant spatial trends brought about by rapid industrialization. Aims to investigate the main features and trends of decentralization and to identify the factors behind these trends. The second part of the article presents a general socioeconomic profile of Korea, focusing on the industrialization and urbanization process; while in Korea. A case study of these processes is presented for Pusan region, including changes in the regional economy, female labour employment, and urban and rural linkages. Pusan region including the city of Pusan and the surrounding Kyongnam province, is selected as a case study of urban-regional linkages because of the substantial economic and spatial changes it has undergone during the last three decades. -from Author
1990	Selected Land Reforms in East and Southeast Asia: Their Origins and ImpactsAgrarian reforms in the four case study countries examined here came about by outside influence (Korea and Taiwan), revolutionary uprising (People's Republic of China), and legislation (Philippines). In the last case, the reforms remain very incomplete. In Taiwan and South Korea, reforms initially promoted a more equitable distribution of resources and income. This widened the domestic market, lessened underemployment and joblessness in both agriculture and industry, increased profitability in manufacturing, and established more equitable development patterns. In these economies, a national market has preceded (or accompanied) development of world markets. Land reform is not a once?and?for?all phenomenon. Resources and incomes can concentrate again in the absence of proper government policies. There is no necessary correlation between land reform, economic improvement, and democratic forms of government. Copyright ⓒ 1990, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1990	Food security policy in a stochastic worldFood security may be increased by variance-reducing strategies, by food aid, or by development strategies. This paper uses a Korea CGE model, subjected to random fluctuation in world-prices and domestic food productivity, to evaluate these policies. We find that poverty- reducing development strategies are the most food-security strategies. ⓒ 1990.
1990	State, Industrialization and Agricultural Policy in KoreaAnalyses of Korean (Republic of Korea) development point to the strong role of the state in directing the industrialization process. State intervention has also been pronounced in agriculture, as state agents have mobilized bureaucratic resources to direct agricultural production activities in support of the national development project through the creation of strategic agroindustrial linkages. The Korean green revolution campaign to achieve rice self?sufficiency is used to illustrate the state's role in fostering intersectoral linkages. Agriculture is brought back into the debate about Korean development. ⓒ 1990 Institute of Social Studies
1990	Lessons from Korean economic growthIn 1960, Korea was a poor developing country with a small manufacturing sector and heavily dependent on foreign aid. Between 1965 and 1979, Korea's real GDP growth averaged over 9% per year, with manufacturing growth of nearly 19%. Korea's impressive history of economic growth stands out from the experience of most developing countries that have borrowed heavily in international financial markets. For most of the highly indebted countries, the debt crisis has become a growth crisis as well. The contrasts in growth performance between these countries and Korea, since 1965 and particularly during the 1980s debt crisis recovery, are striking. This paper examines distinguishing aspects of Korea's economic growth and argues that these factors do contain lessons for policymakers in other countries struggling to revive stagnant economies. -from Author
1990	A comparative analysis of the use of information inputs in the manufacturing sectors of Korea and JapanThe paper examines the use of two information-inputs, information labor and purchased information services, in Korean and Japanese manufacturing sectors in 1980. Marginal products and substitution elasticities are calculated from translog production function estimates for the average manufacturing sector. Both inputs seem to be relatively more underused in Korea. Second, the elasticity estimates suggest several hypotheses about the growth of private bureaucracies in the two economies. The results are unlikely to apply to other economies which have not yet attained an advanced industrial structure. A simplistic stages theory of economic development based on the growth of the information labor force is rejected. ⓒ 1990.
1990	Are purchased information services underused in manufacturing? Evidence from Japan, Korea and TaiwanMacro-production functions which include purchased information services as an intermediate input are estimated for the manufacturing sectors of Japan, Korea and Taiwan. The aim is to assess the degree of suboptimal use of this input. Similar previous studies mainly concentrated on the US, using single equation estimation methods. Using a translog function approach, the results in this study seems to indicate that purchased information services are used suboptimally in the manufacturing sectors of all three economies. The largest suboptimal use is observed in Korea. Economic policies fostering the development of information service industries might therefore be more urgent in NICs than in developed economies. However, our results are subject to the assumption of perfect competition in product and factor markets. ⓒ 1990, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1989	Foreign capital in Korea's economic development, 1960-1985The relationship between foreign capital and state autonomy is investigated in the rapidly developing South Korean economy. The changing composition and the sectoral distribution of the different types of foreign capital, the role of the Korean state in the acquisition and distribution of foreign capital, and the implications of foreign capital on the autonomy and capacity of the state are studied. The findings show that public loans and state-guaranteed commercial loans in the 1960s and 1970s have supported and strengthened state autonomy, while direct foreign investment (DFI) and commercial loans in the 1980s could potentially undermine it. Significant changes in the 1980s-rapid increase of Japanese DFI in hotels, commerical loans behaving more like DFI, and changing industrial orientation of the Korean economy toward more high-technology sectors-suggest that the types of foreign capital which are more independent of state control and more keen on market signals will increase in the future. This has importnat implications for future Korean economic development. ⓒ 1990 Springer.
1989	An Econometric Investigation of Money Demand Behavior in Four Asian Developing CountriesThis paper examines the demand for money in four Asian economies: Pakistan, the Philippines, South Korea, and Thailand. Focus is given to the open-economy nature of the money demand model, and the empirical results indicate that some measure of foreign interest rates or exchange rate depreciation and technological change plays a significant role in the Asian money demand functions. [310]. ⓒ 1989, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1989	A local social development programme in the Republic of KoreaIt was only in 1982, when the original Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan was initiated, that for the first time the government put more emphasis on social development. It was decided that economic and social development should be carried out simultaneously. The purpose of this research is to investigate which organizations have been carrying out what types of projects in a particular regional society in the Republic of Korea, to study what kinds of problems they have encountered and to suggest how to improve their plans. The article is followed by comments from P.M. Nietes, pp 193-195. -from Author
1989	Training on local social development in Asia and the PacificIn 1987, the United Nations Centre for Regional Development contracted for the preparation of eight case studies of training activities in local social development. These cases were presented at the Expert Group Meeting on Training Module Development held in Nagoya, Japan in March 1988. The case studies addressed 10 separate topics selected to make cross-national comparisons possible, and this report summarizes the findings of the participants in those areas. The countries studied were Indonesia, Malaysia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Republic of Korea, Sri Lanka, and Thailand. The article is followed by comments from M. O'Collins, pp 269-271. -from Author
1989	The Asian newly industrializing economies (NIEs): are "economic miracles' equally miraculous?Without the benefit of full knowledge of the processes of economic development in the NIEs, the purpose of this presentation is to provide an antidote to a tendency among economists to oversimplify miraculous economic performances of the four NIEs and to force a paradigm of economic development and empirical evidences from the historical records of these economies as lessons to the developing countries. This paper begins with a reiteration of the highly recognized similarities of the four NIEs in their economic performance. Then, by examining the initial conditions of these economies, points out their differences and sets the stage to reinterpret the economic miracles of the NIEs. -from Author
1989	Going beyond clones in Brazil and Korea: A comparative analysis of NIC strategies in the computer industryBy focusing on the concrete history of attempts by two major newly industrialized countries (NICs) - Brazil and Korea - to promote indigenous innovation in the computer industry, this paper explores the interaction of state structures and industrial organization in shaping developmental strategies. It is argued that Korea's initially stronger private sector and especially its cohesive state apparatus gave it substantial advantage, but that the changes in Brazilian industrial organization fostered by its informatics policy have increased the future potental of Brazil's indigenous computer producers. ⓒ 1989.
1989	The newly industrializing economies and Asian development: issues and optionsAnalyzes the role NIEs could play in the future development of Asia and explores areas and modalites of cooperation between the NIEs and other Asian developing economies. It first provides a brief review of the recent economic performance of the NIEs and their interaction with other Asian developing economies, then assesses the current and medium-term changes in the world economy and their impact on the NIEs. Finally, it examines the prospects for cooperation between the NIEs and Asian developing economies. -from Authors
1989	Catching up: the Asian newly industrializing economies in the 1990sIt is now widely accepted that the success of the Asian NIEs is not the result of cultural factors but of economic policy choices. Although the characteristics of political regimes have varied, the NIEs have had stable governments with relatively smooth transitions that have enabled policy designers to "learn by doing'. This article first focuses on the "initial conditions' in the Asian NIEs. It then discusses the importance of overcoming balance-of-payments constraints and reviews the changing structure of exports. It concludes with a discussion on the role of technological change and private direct investment and of an open international economy. -Author
1989	The comparative homogeneity of the East Asian NIC exports of similar manufacturesThe "Four Tigers" - South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore serve as a model for successful export driven growth. This paper examines the degree to which their export growth followed similar or divergent patterns in response to income and price changes. Differing responses were found, in general, to characterize export growth of these four countries. However, similar patterns were found to describe the exports of certain sophisticated, research and development  intensive products. Several explanations are posited and empirically examined. ⓒ 1989.
1989	Export processing zones: The economics of enclave manufacturingExport processing zones (EPZS) are economics enclaves within which manufacturing for export occurs under virtual free trade conditions. Many developing countries have established EPZS in hopes of reaping economic gains through employment, foreign exchange earnings, and technology transfer. This article studies the benefits and costs of EPZS in Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and the Philippines and reviews the relationship between the welfare effects of EPZS and the host country's economic policies. When the domestic economy is distorted, the EPZ confers limited welfare gains. Nevertheless, EPZS are far from the "engines of development" that some countries had initially hoped they would become. ⓒ 1989 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/THE WORLD BANK.
1988	Estimates of Capital Stock and Capital/Output Coefficients by Industries: Korea (1953?-86)This paper constructs a polynomial-benchmark model to estimate gross and net capital stocks by explicitly estimating implicit retirement rates and depreciation rates. The model is applied to Korean data (1953?86) where such data as national wealth survey, national income accounts and industrial census are available. Three alternative series of capital stock estimates are generated and compared with previous estimates. It is shown that the use of a pure perpetual-inventory model or a benchmark-year method alone may introduce a significant bias in the measurement of capital stocks for developing economies. [220]. ⓒ 1988, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1988	Exchange Rate Effects on Korea's EconomyKorea has been under growing pressure to appreciate its exchange rate to reduce the trade surplus, particularly with the United States. A change in the external currency value of a country has direct effects on the trade via changes in relative prices and indirect effects via induced changes in income and monetary conditions. This notes presents some estimates of these effects, using the available price elasticity etimates and a macroeconomic model of Korea. Even though the estimates presented are not very precise, an exchange rate appreciation is shown to lower the trade balance, price levels, and overall economic growth of Korea. Then, this note suggests the policy course Korea should take to meet Korea's desire to reduce its external debt and to avoid the global consequences of the large continuing U.S. deficits. [430]. ⓒ 1988, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1988	The Effects of Fiscal Policy in KoreaThis paper investigates whether a neoclassical model can explain output and investment in Korea. The model disaggregates government purchases into defense purchases, nondefense consumption purchases and government investment and splits each of these into a permanent component and a transitory component. Although the regressions reported in this paper do fit well, their implications have no consistent neoclassical interpretation and have unreasonable policy implications. If one ignores how unreasonable these implications are, one can conclude that government purchases affect the Korean economy in much different ways according to what type they are and whether they are permanent or tranistory. [320]. ⓒ 1988, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1988	Some policy lessons from the opening of the Korean insurance marketThis article examines the recent dispute between the United States and the Republic of Korea over the opening of Korea's insurance market to U.S. companies. The article assesses the interests and motivations of both countries that lay behind the formal arguments presented during the negotiation process. It also analyzes whether the long-run interests of both developing and industrial countries would be well served by the approach to the opening of the market adopted in this case-sharing the rent while continuing to regulate the insurance market. The analysis suggests that the opening of a developing country's insurance market (or the wider financial services market) would serve the long-run interests of both developing and industrial countries only if it were accomplished in the context of overall domestic liberalization of the finance industry. "Opening" of the market, if this means only the sharing of the rents that were generated by regulation of the market, is unlikely to be beneficial to developing countries. ⓒ 1988 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1988	The korean construction industry as an exporter of servicesThis article analyzes the experience of the overseas construction industry in the Republic of Korea in the 1970s and 1980s, emphasizing the factors that made Korean construction firms competitive in the world market. Korean construction exports to the Middle East and the roles of Korean workers, entrepreneurs, and the government are examined. Recent erosion of Korea's competitiveness in labor-intensive construction in the Middle East is discussed in relation to the need to develop expertise in design and engineering projects and to increase access to construction markets in developed countries through bilateral or multilateral trade negotiations. The importance of the issue of labor movement in the current Uruguay Round negotiations in services trade is emphasized. ⓒ 1988 The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1988	Promoting small and medium industries: the Korean experienceThe promotion of small and medium-scale industries is politically an attractive policy for achieving social equity and justice and economically desirable for attaining balanced growth. However, in practice, the promotion of these industries is an extremely difficult task, and usually the policies are costly for the government without producing the desired results. In general, there are two kinds of promotional policies for the development of small and medium industries. One is to create as many industries as possible and help them to survive, and the other is to create and/or help small-scale industries to grow and become medium-scale industries through import substitution for the domestic market and eventually export promotion for the international market. In the case of the Republic of Korea, the government adopted the second approach for promoting small and medium industries. -from Author
1988	Towards the integration of development and conservation in Seoul, Republic of KoreaThis article presents the post-1970s attempts of Seoul City Government to control urban growth by means of various penalties and incentives. These are defined as mitigation policies, made up of deployment strategy, balancing strategy and planned expansion strategy; and defensive policy, comprising greenbelt strategy and intensive use strategy, all of which are outlined in detail. Also considered are the spatial scale at which policies operate, the trade-off between development and conservation, and the need for balanced development throughout the nation. There is a comment by T.T.-F. Lam. -P.Hardiman
1988	Macroeconomic adjustment and income distribution. Alternative models applied to two economiesTo analyze the impact of alternative macroeconomic adjustment mechanisms on the distribution of income in developing countries, we construct a CGE model that is general enough to incorporate neoclassical, neo-Keynesian, and a variety of structuralist macro closure rules. The model is applied to two economies, Brazil and Korea, with alternative macro closures both for savings-investment and for the balance of trade. We find that (1) the size distribution of income is largely insensitive to macro closure rules, (2) the functional distribution is very sensitive to macro closure rules, and (3) the balance-of-trade closure is at least as important in determining distributional outcomes as the savings-investment closure. ⓒ 1988.
1988	The effects of agricultural development policies on income distribution and technological change in agricultureA framework for analyzing the effects of policies on income distribution is introduced for the case where farmers have both discrete adoption decisions relating to fixed cost and continuous adoption decisions relating to land allocation. Distributional effects depend on the underlying distributions of farm size, risk preferences, and credit availability. Absolute and relative equity effects of various policies are shown to depend critically on which of these factors are major barriers to adoption and on the stochastic relationship of returns to various cropping activities. A fixed-cost subsidy appears to be a dominant policy from an equity standpoint in most cases. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Labor issues in Korea's futureThe abundant supply of highly educated and motivated human resources, extremely favorable to the rapid growth of an export-led, labor-intensive manufacturing sector, has been the primary source of Korean economic development during the past quarter century. Now, the Korean economy is undergoing a tremendously rapid industrial structural change into an OECD-type of mature economy. This paper examines four sets of problems Korean labor will face in the transition period of the 1990s: changes in the age-sex-educational composition of the labor force; changes in the structure of labor demand, leading to possible skill mismatches; rising labor costs and reform in the remuneration system; moves toward participatory and democratic labor-management relations. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korean development and urbanization: Prospects and problemsKorea has coped extremely well with an urban growth that has been among the fastest in the world during the last quarter century. In this paper, we discuss four urban issues that the Korean government must face during the remainder of this century. First we address the limitation on urban land supply imposed by greenbelts surrounding Seoul and other Korean cities. We estimate the reduction in Seoul housing costs that would result from relaxation of Seoul's greenbelt. Second, we estimate the effect on housing user cost that has resulted from the failure of the Korean government to provide for institutions that make loans with housing as collateral. Third, we discuss urban transportation issues. Fourth, we discuss issues related to urban public infrastructure and local government finances. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korean trade policy in the next decade: Dealing with reciprocityKorea's hope for completing its transition to the status of an advanced industrialized economy during the next decade depends critically upon its continued ability to diversify its production mix through exports. For the foreseeable future, the United States will be the only market in which Korea can achieve the economies of scale necessary to become competitive in more sophisticated manufactured goods. The current Korean trade policy is a mix of gradual import liberalization and selective localization of infant industries. Growing criticism in the United States of these policies and calls for substantially accelerated liberalization, however, cast doubt upon Korea's ability to maintain these policies. This paper analyzes the situation facing Korea and identifies two possible alternatives to Korea's trade policy direction. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Fiscal policy and development in KoreaThis paper assesses Korea's tax and expenditure policies during the period 1962-1985, with special attention to their implications for the future. In its examination of Korean fiscal policy, the paper is concerned with whether Korea's fiscal system has contributed to the mobilization of domestic resources and whether it possesses a significant capacity for income distribution. In so doing, the paper examines the major deficiencies of the existing fiscal system in order to clarify what problems merit high priority in future tax reforms. Also, an attempt is made to analyze growth and shifts in the composition of tax revenues and expenditures. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Rational and non-rational expectations of inflation in KoreaA modest attempt has been made to investigate the expectations hypothesis for the Korean economy since 1965 within the framework of a simultaneous equations model using a variety of expectations formation schemes. The expectations models explored in the study are of rational and non-rational expectations, which include static, adaptive, extrapolative, weighted and normal expectations. The empirical evidence reveals the following: (i) the expectations hypothesis cannot be supported, implying that for the Korean economy, wages do not fully adjust to inflationary expectations; (ii) inflationary expectations play an essential role in money-wage determination in the non-rational models, but not in the rational models; and (iii) the normal expectations model best portrays the role of inflationary expectations in the economy. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korea's exchange rate policy in a changing economic environmentThe main purpose of this paper is to analyze Korea's past exchange rate experiences and to consider the appropriate exchange rate policy for Korea in the future. The won-$ exchange rate is shown to have been undervalued to improve the trade account and to be affected by Korea's external debt position and the relative prices of Korean goods. Using a framework for adjusting the exchange rate, the effects of a rise in the current account surplus and yen appreciation on the exchange rate and trade balance are estimated. After discussing one possible exchange rate adjustment to reduce the US deficit with Korea, this paper argues that more scope will be given for the exchange rate to be determined by market conditions. This arises from greater complexity and diversification of the economy in terms of the activities and interests of different economic agents expected to prevail in the future. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korea in the 1990s: Making the transition to a developed economyThanks to rapid economic growth over the past quarter century. Korea today has emerged as one of the newly industrializing countries with the greatest promise of making a successful transition to a fully industrialized nation. In its efforts to manage this transition. Korea will face many challenges, ranging from protectionism abroad to the need to ensure more even income distribution at home. The strategy Korea should adopt to meet those challenges is one of fully liberalizing policies in every sector of its economy. As the key components of this strategy, Korea must restructure its financial and agricultural systems, while maintaining price stability and redefining the role of the government in economic and social development. If it follows such a strategy, Korea in the year 2000 could well be a developed nation, with an important role in upholding the international economic system and maintaining world peace. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Industrial restructuring in KoreaThe paper explores some of the industrial restructuring cconcerns facing the Korean economy at a time when direct government intervention is rapidly being replaced by functional incentives. Restructuring issues are descending forcefully on Korea as the economy moves through a rapid industrial transition from labor-intensive to capital-and skill-intensive exports. Problems affecting sunset industries are complicated by stresses on the financial sector, the pervasive role of conglomerates in the economy, and the worldwide impediments to free trade. All these factors complicate strictly market solutions. Following a discussion of some conceptual and historical aspects, the paper identifies key problem areas affecting industrial policy decisions. surveys lessons from industrialized country experiences, and provides an agenda for future policy reform. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korea's macroeconomic prospects and policy issues for the next decadeThe purpose of this paper is to evaluate Korea's macroeconomic prospects and policy issues for the next decade. After reviewing the initial conditions, we examine growth strategies, and prospects for growth. Then we discuss external borrowing options and the role of monetary and fiscal policy in the next decade. From the review of Korea's macroeconomic prospects for the next decade we conclude that although the external environment will not be as favorable as in the 1983-1986 period, still the Korean economy will be resilient enough to achieve a 6-7% annual growth rate for the next decade. Areas where new policy actions will be required are in the management of monetory policy and the provision of social welfare. Although we see some increase in the protectionist threat against Korea's exports, we think that the pressures for higher consumption and investment and the less favorable external environment will result in smaller trade surpluses in the years ahead. ⓒ 1988.
1988	External financing for Korea: The next phaseThis paper suggests that future external finance arrangements for Korea will exhibit increasing reliance on securitized instruments (bonds and equity) in preference to loans. Such a shift in the composition of financing is warranted by the evolution of Korea's needs, constraints and opportunities as reflected in such ongoing or anticipated developments as: the vulnerability to external trade and finance shocks, the gradual disengagement of government from financial, trade and industrial intervention, the substantial improvement in competitiveness arising from the realignment of OECD exchange rates and the associated improvement in Korea's credit- worthiness, and changing lender preferences as expressed in the trend towards securitization in international finance markets. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Korea's export niche: Origins and prospectsKorea has achieved significant global market shares in variety of labor-intensive, intermediate, as well as sophisticated consumer products. Its revealed comparative advantage is quite similar to Japan's (particularly when evaluated with a 15-year lag). Korean and Japanese export baskets are more closely correlated than those of Japan and other East Asian NICs. Circumstantial evidence suggests that this similarly is the result of Korea's "following" a Japanese development model-through the adoption of Japanese technologies, policies, and commercial institutions, and the exploitation of externalities generated by Japanese penetration of global markets. Partly for these reasons, Korean exports are heavily concentrated in the US market and tend to consist of relatively protection-prone commodities. Consequently, issues of trade management and diplomacy will play an increasingly important role in determining the volume and composition of future exports. ⓒ 1988.
1988	Automating the computation of solutions of large economic modelsThe computer implementation of any large economic model is usually a very expensive and time consuming task. This paper describes a software package, called GEMPACK, which is being developed specifically to reduce dramatically the research time, effort and cost required to set up one solution method (the Johansen method) on an actual computer. Existing features of GEMPACK are described in detail, as are developments planned for the near future. The software is model-independent, in that it works for a wide class of economic models, irrespective of the form of the equations or underlying theory. GEMPACK is portable to most mini and mainframe computers, because it has been written in ANSI standard FORTRAN 77, with such portability as a primary requirement. Several models, including the Dervis, de Melo and Robinson model of Korea, have been implemented using GEMPACK. ⓒ 1988.
1987	Simulating Alternative Development Strategies: Some Suggestions From Korea’s ExperienceThis paper reviews the stylized facts about Korea’s development strategy which distinguish it from most other developing countries. These stylized facts are then incorporated in two multi-sector models, a ‘dynamic input-output (DIO) model and a computable general equilibrium (CGE) model. Both models are used to ask what might have happened to Korea if she had pursued an inward-looking rather than an outward-looking development strategy. ⓒ 1987, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1987	Effects of restraining steel exports from the republic of korea and other countries to the United States and the European economic communityIn this article a model is developed to evaluate the impact on an exporting country of a restraint imposed on its export by an importing economy in the context of a three-region model of world trade in a single product. The welfare changes in any of the three regions in the model and in the global economy can be evaluated.The model is applied to the restraints imposed on steel exports from the Republic of Korea to the United States and the European Economic Community (EEC). The United States and the EEC are found to have incurred significant losses as a result of the restraints. The largest part of these losses are quota rents transferred to Korea and the rest of the world. Under reasonable parameter assumptions, Korea and the rest of the world obtain net gains from the quotas, because the resource misallocation costs are smaller than the quota rents.The model is modified to analyze a tariff barrier rather than a quantitative restraint. It is found that an "equivalent" tariff on steel transforms Korea and the rest of the world from net gainers to net losers as a result of a restraint. ⓒ 1987 by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1987	Concentration and Wage Earnings in an Open Economy: A Case Study of KoreaThe object of this paper is to increase our understanding of the effect of output market power (the degree of concentration in an industry) on wage earnings in Korea. We conduct a series of econometric investigations based on the traditional human capital theory and find that workers in a more concentrated industry are paid higher. This wage premium is not explained in terms of the differences in the quality of labor and/or compensating factors. It suggests to us that the conventional estimates of the misallocation of resources due to the output market power are underestimated since this source of higher unit costs is disregarded. [820]. ⓒ 1987, Taylor & Francis Group, LLC. All rights reserved.
1987	BOOK REVIEWSBook reviewed in this artilces: Export?Oriented Industrialization: The ASEAN Experience . By Mohamed Ariff and Hal Hill. The Singapore Economy: New Directions . Report of the Economic Committee, Ministry of Trade and Industry. The Cassava Economy of Java . By W. P. Falcon, W. O. Jones, S. R. Pearson and others. The Small Developing State: Comparing Political Economies in Costa Rica, Singapore and Jamaica . By Dennis John Gayle. Development Economics on Trial: An Anthropological Case for the Prosecution . By Polly Hill. The Sovereign Entrepreneur: Oil Policies in Advanced and Less Developed Capitalist Countries . By Merrie Gilbert Klapp. Models of Development: A Comparative Study of Economic Growth in South Korea and Taiwan . Edited By Lawrence J. Lau. The Pacific Century: Economic and Political Consequences of Asian?Pacific Dynamism . By Staffan Burenstam Linder. Import Controls and Export?Oriented Development: A Reassessment of the South Korean Case . By Richard Luedde?Neurath. Development in Malaysia: Poverty, Wealth and Trusteeship . By Ozay Mehmet. Modernization in China ? The case of the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone . By Kwan?Yiu Wong and David K. Y. Chu. Indonesia: The Rise of Capital . By Richard Robison. Japan's Response to Crisis and Change in the World Economy . Edited by M. Schmieglow. Fiscal Issues in South?East Asia . Edited by Parathasarati Shome. Industrialization Policies and Regional Economic Development in Malaysia . By Dean Spinanger. Pacific Growth and Financial Interdependence . Edited By Augustine H. H. Tan and Basant Kapur. ASEAN ? South?Asia Economic Relations . Edited by C. D. Wadhva, and M. G. Asher. Asia's ‘Miracle’ Economies: Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong . By Jon Woronoff. Copyright ⓒ 1987, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1987	The economic consequences of an import surcharge: Theory and empirical evidence for the U.S. economyThis paper analyzes the impact of a 20 percent import surcharge on all U.S. imports and on imports from Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Brazil. The analytical framework is based upon the Michigan Model of World Production and Trade. We also discuss the methodology and results of two recent papers on the effects of an import surcharge. The empirical results indicate that, while the macroeconomic consequences of an import surcharge would be limited, significant intersectoral trade and employment adjustments would take place. The competitive position of U.S. tradable industries may improve or deteriorate depending on whether the dollar depreciates or appreciates in response to the import surcharge. ⓒ 1987.
1987	The public sector in the market economies of developing AsiaThis article asks about the costs associated with the positive role of the public sector and asks what the public sector should not have done rather than what it should have done. The scope is limited to nine countries: Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka and Thailand. -from Author
1987	The role of government in economic development: the Korean experienceFocuses on the role of government in the Republic of Korea in the light of its experience in national development. It examines the role of government in economic development during the last 25 years and how that role has changed in the structural adjustment process, particularly during the 1980s. -from Author
1986	A survey of agricultural household models: Recent findings and policy implicationsSemicommercial farms that produce multiple crops make up a large part of the agricultural sector in developing economies. These farms or agricultural households combine two fundamental units of microeconomic analysis: the household and the firm. Traditional economic theory has dealt with these units separately. But in developing economies in which peasant farms dominate, their interdependence is of crucial importance. Researchers at the Food Research Institute, Stanford University, and at the World Bank have developed models of agricultural households that combine producer and consumer behavior in a theoretically consistent fashion. Recent empirical applications of these models have extended them and expanded the range of policy issues which can be investigated using this general framework.This article reports the results of empirical applications of this model in India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Taiwan, and Thailand. It provides a comparative analysis of the policy implications of the approach for such matters as the welfare of farm households, the size of marketed surplus, the demand for nonagricultural goods and services, and for hired labor, and the availability of budget revenues and foreign exchange. ⓒ 1986 by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development / THE WORLD BANK.
1986	Industrialization and Welfare: The Case of the Four Little TigersEstablished theories of welfare and industrialization have been abstracted from the historical experience of the Western countries and no attempt has been made to assess their empirical validity with reference to the newly industrializing countries (NICs) of the Third World. Reviewing the industrial development and social services of Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan (the four little tigers) it is argued that social policy development in these countries cannot be attributed to the effects of the conditions of industrialization in which political elites respond proactively to the demands of industrial change. Instead, social policy in the Asian NICs is largely incremental in character and the consequence of a variety of causal events which are not accounted for by established theories. Copyright ⓒ 1986, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1986	Policy analysis with a macroeconomic model of KoreaThis paper reports on a macroeconomic model of Korea. The model consists of markets for output, prices and labour, the balance of payments and money, and emphasizes in its structure the openness of the economy. A complete listing of the model equations and statistics of its performance are presented. The paper then discusses both the external and internal policy impacts on main domestic economic conditions, on the basis of the multipliers obtained for changes in fiscal, monetary, exchange rate policy instruments and changes in foreign economic activity and interest rates. ⓒ 1986.
1986	The impact of alternative development strategies: Simulations with a dynamic input-output modelThis paper analyzes the implications of two different development strategies: outward-looking strategy led by manufacturing exports and inward-looking strategy focused on import substitution strategy. Our approach is to do counterfactual experiments with a dynamic input-output model in order to explore the impact of the different strategy on economic performance. We apply the model to two different countries (Turkey and Korea), which exemplify the two strategies, and explore the impact in each case of a switching strategy. We impose an export-led strategy on Turkey and inward-looking strategy on Korea. Our results confirm the view that export-led strategy leads to better economic performance. However, we also find that there are risks associated with this choice. An export-led strategy requires high level of foreign capital inflows in the early phase, to be paid back later as export levels rise. The strategy also requires a high level of factor productivity growth. If export growth is not maintained, the country will be left with a dangerous level of foreign debt. If high productivity growth is not achieved, the growth in factor inputs (particularly investment) required to achieve adequate growth of manufacturing is not sustainable. Finally, our results indicate that the dynamic input-output model provides a good framework for exploring the structural implications of a choice of development strategy. ⓒ 1986.
1986	Approaches to social development planning in the Republic of Korea.Discusses concepts of social development and the Korean Government's commitment, analyzing Presidential messages and 5 year plans. Then describes the social planning system and the implementation of social development projects, which is the responsibility of local government and regional branch offices. Finally, assesses the effectiveness of the current system of social development planning and management, and concludes that this depends on the extent of government commitment. Concludes with a comment by E.Chetwynd Jr. -C.Wilson
1986	A general equilibrium model of structural change and economic growth, with application to south KoreaThis paper presents a computable general equilibrium model for South Korea. It is a dynamic input-output model solved by assuming equal sectoral growth rates. Its solution gives output and price relatives which measure the structural 'distance' of the economy from the 'turnpike'. Comparisons of these model solutions with actual output proportions and relative prices provide insights into the South Korean industrialization process. However, the model's strict assumptions limit its applicability and provide problems of interpretation, especially in open economies. ⓒ 1986.
1986	Problems and strategies of financing subnational development: the case of the Philippines and the Republic of Korea.Techniques for generating local government revenue and its management are identified and compared. Fiscal problems vary but both identify rising demand. Strategies are listed against a background of increasing dependence on central funding.-J.Yockney
1985	The role of social organizational resources in local-level development and management: synthesis and conclusions.A comparative analysis which consists of 13 case studies undertaken in India, Japan, Republic of Korea, and Bangladesh. Three contributing factors related to the formation of receiving mechanisms were examined: 1) the changing external factors leading to a belief in the value of participation in a collective activity; 2) the social unit and its structural conditions which give impetus to a certain collective activity; 3) the social technique to encourage the progression from the belief to concrete collective activity, to social duty. Identifies and analyzes the type of external factors, social units, and organizational functions.-from Authors
1985	Sexual stratification: the other side of 'growth with equity' in East Asia.Using microlevel, longitudinal data from Taiwan, documents growing inequality between sons and daughters with respect to four socioeconomic resources: education, occupation, income, property; and three areas of personal autonomy: job selection, residence, and control over income. The Taiwan material supports theories that hold that the decline in women's position that has accompanied capitalist development in many parts of the world is rooted in the first instance in the interaction of capitalist economic institutions with patriarchal family institutions. However, the more fundamental source is the partiarchal family. On Taiwan, capitalism and the state simply provided new means for parents to use old tools to recreate and reinforce old hierchies. Rooted in a certain type of family system operating in a certain type of economic environment, patterns of sexual stratification are not limited to Taiwan, but are found throughout East Asia, from Hong Kong to Japan, (South) Korea, and the People's Republic of China.-from Author
1985	Village receiving system and group farming practice: case studies in the Republic of Korea.A Korean case study which was designed to analyze the structure, operation, and performance of the group farming institutions in the context of how the development policy system, the market system, and the traditional village system affects them. Four villages were selected in Ansung Gun. Explores how Saemaul Farm Machinery Groups have been developed in Daesho and Dogi, and selects Jinae and Jangam for comparison of their Grape Growers Joint Marketing Groups.- after Author
1985	Macro-economic effects of changes in bank interest rates. Simulation results for South KoreaWe use an empirical macro-econometric model of Korea to simulate the impact of bank interest rate changes. This model includes a very detailed sub-model of the financial sector, plus in addition to the usual demand side transmission channels of monetary policy a link between the financial sector and the supply side of the 'real part' of the economy via the cost of financing working capital ('Cavallo'-effect). Increases in Time Deposit rate are shown to be contractionary in the short run, because the portfolio shifts they trigger tighten credit conditions and cause higher costs of financing working capital; people shift out of the curbmarket rather than out of cash. The higher cost of financing working capital also pushes up inflation in the first quarter after the change, making the increase in TD rates stagflationary. This effect dies out quickly, however. The persistence of the loss in output is shown to depend on whether the commercial banks are allowed to play their intermediary role or not: if credit limits prevent the passing through into bank loans of the influx of time deposits caused by the higher rates, substantial and persistent real output losses and decreased private investment were shown to result. ⓒ 1985.
1984	Book ReviewsFINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT IN KOREA 1945?1978 PROTECTIONISM AND INDUSTRIAL DECLINE DEPRESSION AND PROTECTION: BRITAIN BETWEEN THE WARS THE MULTZNATIONAL CORPORATION IN THE 1980s Copyright ⓒ 1984, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
1984	Republic of KoreaKorea's spectacular export growth - from $50 million worth of goods in 1962 to $25 billion in 1982 - is a well-known, well-documented success story. Less well known is the recent surge in Korea's exports of capital goods and related services. These exports include those directly related to overseas projects to establish and operate productive systems. They also include non-project-related exports of capital goods, such as most kinds of transportation equipment or machinery sold to trading firms for resale. The project-related exports comprise overseas construction, exports of capital goods procured in connection with specific projects, and various flows of technological information and technical and managerial services. The value of such exports from Korea was small until 1977, when the annual value nearly surpassed the cumulative value for the preceding 15 years. For the five years from 1977 to 1981, contracts for these exports amounted to more than $40 billion. During the same period non-project-related capital goods exports were worth roughly $8 billion. This paper examines Korea's exports of capital goods and related services, their role in Korea's development strategy, and the way they conform to Korea's dynamic comparative advantage. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Industrial Policy for the Machine Tool Industries of South Korea and TaiwanSUMMARY The Korean machine tool industry began to develop later than the Taiwanese, but has now overtaken it in several respects, and more aggressive state help is one of the reasons why. State intervention will have to grow if the industry in both countries is to move beyond the increasingly competitive market in conventional machine tools into the production of computer numerically controlled machine tools. Radical changes in firm strategy and capital markets are needed to make this jump. RESUMEN Politica industrial para la industria de maquinas?herramientas en Corea del Sur La industria de maquinas?herramientas comenzo a desarrollarse despues que en Taiwan, pero en las actualidad la ha sobrepasado en varios aspectos, constituyendo la implementacion de una ayuda estatal mas energica en el caso de Corea del Sur, una de las causas. La intervencion estatal debera acentuarse si se pretende que la industria de ambos paises supere la creciente competitividad del mercado en las maquinas?herramientas convencionales, mediante la produccion de maquinas?herramientas controladas numericamente por computador. Se precisa de cambios radicales en una estrategia firme y en el mercado de capitales para dar este salto. RESUMES La politique industrielle pour les industries de machine?outil en Coree du Sud et a Taiwan Staffan Jacobsson L'industrie coreenne de machine?outil commenca a se developper plus tard que celle de Taiwan, mais a maintenant depasse celle?ci dans plusieurs aspects, et cela grace a une aide gouvernementale plus importante. L'intervention de l'etat devra etre plus importante si l'industrie dans les deux pays grandit au?dela du marche de plus en plus concurrentiel des simples machines?outils dans celui de la production de machines?outils controlee numeriquement par des cerveaux electroniques. Des changements radicaux sont necessaires pour realiser ce passage. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	Administrative Traditions and Economie Decision?making in South KoreaSUMMARY This article offers a preliminary analysis of what is often considered a formal hierarchy, suggesting that decisionmaking in the Korean Government is far from being a simple case of orders and policies descending from the top. It argues instead that junior officials enjoy wide autonomy and a large degree of consultation with those outside the government, both quasi government agencies and informal contacts. The form of government has preserved many features of Korea's traditional past and incorporated much from the colonial system. This has given Korea a uniquely responsive system for rapid development with government?led growth. RESUMEN Tradiciones administrativas y toma de decisiones economicas en Corea del Sur Este articulo ofrece un analisis preliminar de lo que a menudo se considera jerarquia formal. sugiriendo que la toma de decisiones del gobierno de Corea del Sur esta lejos de ser un simple caso de ordenes y politicas que descienden desde la cupula. Sostiene, en cambio, que los mandos medios disfrutan de gran autonomia y amplio rango de consultas fuera del ambito gubernamental, tanto con las agencias paraestatales como con contactos informales. El gobierno ha preservado muchos rasgos del pasado tradicional e incorporado muchos habitos del pasado colonial, lo que ha otorgado a Corea del Sur un sistema de respuestas excepcional para un rapido desarrollo de direccion gubernamental. RESUMES Les traditions administratives et les prises de decision economiques en Coree du Sud Cet article offre une analyse preliminaire de ce qui est souvent considere une hierarchie formelle, suggerant que la prise de decision dans le gouvernement Coreen est loin d'etre un simple cas d'ordres et de politiques venant du sommet? Au contraire il prouve que les jeunes fonctionnaires jouissent d'une grande autonomie et d'un grand niveau de consultation en dehors du gouvernement, aussi bien avec des agences quasi?etatiques que des contacts officieux. La forme du gouvernement a preserve plusieurs aspects du passe traditionnel de la Coree et incorpore plusieurs aspects du systeme colonial. Cela a pourvu la Coree d'un systeme particulierement flexible facilitant un developpement rapide avec une croissance controlee par le gouvernement. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	Republic of Korea ( technology exports).Korea's spectacular export growth is a well-known, well-documented success story. Less well known is the recent surge in exports of capital goods and related services. These exports include those directly related to overseas projects to establish and operate productive systems. They also include non-project related exports of capital goods, such as most kinds of transportation equipment or machinery sold to trading firms for resale. The project related exports comprise overseas construction, exports of capital goods procured in connection with specific projects, and various flows of technological information and technical and managerial services. Examines exports of capital goods and related services, their role in development strategy, and the way they conform to Korea's dynamic comparative advantage.-from Authors English
1984	Class, State and Industrialisation in South KoreaSUMMARY An explanation of how private industrial capital became the driving force of society is central to an understanding of South Korean industrialisation. This process had two main phases: the transformation of landed assets into merchant capital in the 1950s and of commercial into industrial capital in the 1960s. The state has played a fundamental role in structuring changes in class relations at each stage. RESUMEN Clases, estado e industrializacion en Corea del Sur Para comprender la industrializacion de Corea del Sur es imprescindible una explicacion de la forma en que el capital industrial privado se transformo en la fuerza motriz de la sociedad. Este proceso tuvo dos fases principales: la transformacion del capital terrateniente en mercantil en la decada de 1950 y de este en industrial en la decada de 1960. El estado desempeno un rol fundamental en la estructuracion de los cambios en las relaciones de clase en cada una de estas etapas. RESUMES Classe, etat et industrialisation en Coree du Sud Une explication de la facon selon laquelle le capital industriel devint la force dirigeante de la societe est la cle pour comprendre l'industrialisation de la Coree du Sud. Ce procede comporte deux phases principales: la transformation de biens fonciers en capital marchand dans les annees 50 et de capital commercial en capital industriel dans les annees 60. L'etat a joue un role fondamental dans la structuration des changements dans les rapports entre les classes a tous les niveaux. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	State Intervention and Foreign Direct Investment in South KoreaSUMMARY Radical claims that foreign direct investment has ‘denationalised’ the South Korean economy are unfounded; and neoclassical claims that Korean policy towards direct foreign investment has been unusually liberal are equally untrue. This article argues that the positive effect of foreign direct investment on Korea's development is due in important part to the government's directive, ‘illiberal’ policies toward foreign investment. RESUMEN Intervencion estatal e inversion extranjera directa en Corea del Sur Este articulo plantea que son infundados tanto los planteamientos radicales sobre la desnacionalizacion originada por la inversion extranjera directa, como los neoclasicos relativos a que la politica gubernamental ha sido anormalmente liberal con esta. Sostiene, en cambio, que el efecto positivo de la inversion extranjera directa sobre el desarrollo de Corea del Sur, se debe en una medida considerable a la implementacion gubernamental de politicas iliberales’ hacia la inversion extranjera. RESUMES L'intervention de l'etat et l'investissement direct etranger en Coree du Sud Les revendications radicales que l'investissment direct etranger aurait de?nationalise l'economie de Coree du Sud ne sont pas fondees: et les revendications neo?classiques selon lesquelles la politique Coreenne envers l'investissement direct etranger aurait ete particulierement liberale n'ont egalement aucun fondement. Cet article dispute les faits que l'effet positif de l'investissement direct etranger est du en grande partie a la fonction directrice gouvernementale, une politique peu liberale envers l'investissment etranger. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	Trade policies and productivity change in semi-industrialized countriesThe role of trade policies in increasing growth and efficiency has long been a major focus in the development literature. This paper examines the impact of different development strategies, especially export expansion and import substitution trade policies, on total factor productivity growth in the manufacturing industries. The analysis is based on recently developed data on sectoral total factor productivity in Korea, Turkey, and Yugoslavia, with Japan as a comparator. Our results indicate that there are important links between trade policies and industrial productivity performance. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Beyond export-led growthIn light of the adverse conditions in the current international economic environment this paper reassesses the feasibility of continuing to rely on manufacturing export-led growth as the major development dynamic for most LDCs during the next decade. This paper argues that after the initial stages of industrial development, the emphasis in policy toward agriculture should shift from surplus extraction to surplus creation and to the generation of demand linkages with the rest of the economy. The author compares the relative merits of two alternative open development strategies - export-led industrialization and agricultural-demand-led industrialization (ADLI) - by means of several simulation experiments. The experiments are performed with a computable general equilibrium model of a small, low-income, semi-industrial, open economy which is a stylization of South Korea of 1963. They are carried out in an international environment assumed to represent the next decade based on a rate of growth of international demand for imports of about half the 1960-1973 rate. The results support the ADLI approach on all counts. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Exports of technology from semi-industrial economies and local technological developmentThis paper analyzes technology exports from five of the most industrially advanced developing countries - Argentina, Brazil, India, Korea, and Mexico. It explores the nature of the exports and of the exporting firms, identifies the competitive advantage underlying different types of technology exports, and analyzes the comparative advantages of the five countries in these exports. Based on an analysis of different strategies toward the trade in the elements of technology, it summarizes tentative lessons about relationships between trade in the elements of technology, country and firm strategy, and local technological development. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Agriculture in Taiwan and South Korea: the minimalist state?SUMMARY The state has intervened heavily in the agricultural economies of Taiwan and South Korea, both by direct administrative means and by establishing price relativities very different from those set by market forces. Although state action has not always been effective or efficient, it has played a major role in making agriculture serve the objective of rapid industrial growth. The forms and consequences of state intervention have changed over time in response to the political and economic pressures arising from structural economic change. The state has been obliged to be interventionist in order to try to maintain the political order on which continual reinvestment and thus continued growth depend. RESUMEN Agricultura en Taiwan y Corea del Sur: estado minimalista? El estado ha intervenido fuertemente en la economia agricola en ambos paises, tanto por medios directamente administrativos, como por el establecimento de precios relativos muy diferentes de aquellos derivados de la accion de las fuerzas del mercado. Aunque no siempre la accion estatal ha sido efectiva o eficiente, ha jugado un rol principal para que la agricultura sirva los objetivos de un rapido crecimiento industrial. Las formas y consecuencias de la intervencion estatal han cambiado a traves del tiempo, como respuesta a las presiones economicas derivadas del cambio en la estructura economica. El estado se ha visto obligado a ser intervencionista para tratar de mantener el orden politico del cual depende la continua reinversion y, en consecuencia, el crecimiento persistente. RESUMES L'agriculture a Taiwan et en Coree du Sud: l'etat minimaliste? L'etat a intervenu de facon tres importante dans les economies agricoles de Taiwan et de la Coree du Sud, par des moyens administratifs directs et en etablissant une relativite des prix tres differente de celle etablie par les forces de marche. Quoique l'action de l'etat n'ait pas toujours ete effective ou efficace, elle a joue un role de grande importance en se servant de l'agriculture pour aider une croissance industrielle rapide. Les formes et les consequences de l'intervention de l'etat ont change au cours des temps en fonction des pressions politiques et economiques provenant du changement de la structure economique. L'etat a ete oblige d'etre interventionniste de facon a essayer de maintenir l'ordre politique duquel dependent le reinvestissement continu et donc la croissance continue. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	Explaining the Success of the Asian NICs: incentives and technologySUMMARY This article sets out the essential links in the neoclassical interpretation of Asian NIC performance, as exemplified in the work of Little and Balassa. It considers some theoretical weaknesses in the neoclassical argument; and summarises evidence about South Korea which questions the argument on empirical grounds. To understand the sources of economic growth in the Asian NICs the theoretical framework must be expanded to include not only prices but also the process of innovation, especially in production engineering. RESUMEN Explicacion del exito de los paises asiaticos no industrializados: incentivos y tecnologia Este articulo expone los vinculos esenciales existentes en la interpretacion neoclasica de la trayectoria de los paises asiaticos no industrializados, segun aparecen ejemplificades en el trabajo de Little y Balassa. Considera algunas debilidades de los planteamientos neoclasicos y detalla hechos de Corea del Sur. cuestionando aquellos sobre bases empiricas. Para comprender la fuentes del crecimiento economico de los paises asiaticos no industrializados, es necesario ampliar el marco teorico de modo de incluir no solo los precios, sino tambien la innovacion, especialmente en los que se refiere a ingenieria de produccion. RESUMES La cle du succes du NICs en Asie: les motifs et la technologie Cet article etablit les liens essentiels dans l'interpretation neoclassique de l'accomplissement du NIC en Asie, vu a travers le travail de Little et Balassa. Il considere certaines faiblesses theoriques dans l'argument neo?classique; et resume l'evidence au sujet de la Coree du Sud qui met en question l'argument a un niveau empirique. Afin de comprendre les sources de croissance economique dans le NIC en Asie la structure theorique doit etre developpe afin d'inclure non seulement les prix mais aussi le procede d'innovation, surtout dans la production de la construction mecanique. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	Effects of the current world recession on the welfare of children: The case of KoreaThe remarkable growth of Korea's GNP during 1963-1978 was achieved through export-led industrialization. The accelerating rate of growth in labour-intensive export industries provided job opportunities to the growing labour force. However, during the last years of the 1970s the Korean economy experienced bottlenecks and strong inflationary pressures which eroded its export competitiveness. As a response to these problems, the government implemented stabilization and restructuring programmes which did not affect the expansion of social welfare programmes for the poor and the vulnerable. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Government Intervention in the Transfer of Technology: the case of South KoreaSUMMARY The development of South Korea's petrochemical industry has relied heavily on foreign technology. The remarkable success of the industry in a short period of time is mainly due to persistent government intervention at all stages. The efficacy of this intervention is due, in turn, to ‘patriotism’ and ‘the primacy of government’ . This article illustrates a method for assessing the impact of government intervention ? by comparing the development of a particular industry in several countries, all of which have adopted identical techniques from the same supplier. RESUMEN Intervencion gubernamental en la transferencia technologica: el caso de Corea del Sur El desarrollo de la industria petroquimica en este pais se ha basado fuertemente en la tecnologia foranea. El notable exito experimentado en un corto periodo de tiempo se debe principalmente a la persistente intervencion estatal en todas las etapas. A su vez, la eficacia de esta proviene del ‘patriotismo’ y de la ‘primacia’ gubernamentales. Este articulo describe un metodo para evaluar el impacto de la intervencion gubernamental, que consiste en la comparacion del desarrollo de una industria determinada en varios paises, que adoptaron identicas tecnicas procedentes del mismo proveedor. RESUMES L'Intervention gouvernementale dans le transfert de la technologie: le cas de la Coree du Sud Le developpement de l'industrie petrochimique en Coree du Sud s'est grandement appuye sur la technologie etrangere. Le succes remarquable de l'industrie dans une courte periode de temps est du principalement a l'intervention continue de l'etat a tous les niveaux. L'efficacite de cette intervention est due, en retour, au patriotisme’ et a la ‘primaute gouvernementale’ . Cet article demontre une methode pour calculer l'impact de l'intervention gouvernementale ? en comparant le developpement de certaines industries dans plusieurs pays, qui ont toutes adoptees des techniques identiques a partir du meme fournisseur. ⓒ 1984 Institue of Development Studies
1984	The political economy of income distribution in South Korea: The impact of the state's industrialization policiesA number of previous studies of economic growth and income distribution in South Korea, based largely on 1960s data, concluded that South Korea was an exception to Kuznets' 'inverse U-pattern' of income inequality. Also, it was regarded as an exception to the usual negative consequences predicted by dependency theory for an economy so dependent on foreign capital and world markets. This author presents more recent data - for the 1970s and early 1980s - in order to support his claim that the trend toward income equality that appeared in the 1960s was reversed in the 1970s. The author develops a thesis that stresses the role of the state in shaping the Korean political economy. He argues that it has been the strong South Korean developmentalist state in firm control of both domestic and foreign capital and its export-oriented industrialization policies that have been the principal determinant of the pattern of income distribution. He contests the usual explanation related to the level of economic development or external dependency per se. ⓒ 1984.
1984	Employment, income distribution and economic growth in seven small open economies.While many aspects of the character of economic growth can be explored, the two that are examined in this paper are the trade orientation of a country (whether export-oriented or internally-oriented) and the wage policy pursued (whether public policy promotes market-clearing wage rates or higher-than-market-clearing wages). Contends that the effects of trade policy and wage policy are interrelated, and presents evidence from seven small open economies, Barbados, Hong Kong, Jamaica, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan and Trinidad and Tobago to support this view.-from Author
1983	Developments in and prospects for external debt position and burden of developing countries: The case of KoreaThe delay of strong economic recovery by industrialized nations, slowed world export growth, and higher interest rates have worsened the financial situation of a number of developing countries which have relied on external borrowings to sustain current account deficits and protect economic development. Recently, well-publicized concerns over the ability to these countries to repay their considerable debt burden have been raised. To shed light on these concerns, the paper focuses on Korea-one of the heavier debt-holding countries. It describes the process through which Korea has acquired its external debt over the past decade, assesses the trends in its debt burden, and presents prospects for the period 1982-1986. Using the Korean experience, the paper shows that the most common indicators used for evaluating foreign debt burden, such as the long-term service ratio, need to be supplemented by other measurements. In a world economy characterized by short-term debts with variable interest rates, the paper suggests that an important tool in analyzing the external debt burden should be the short-term debt burden. ⓒ 1983.
1983	Metropolitan growth and population development at the national level.Aims at demonstrating the importance of treating urban populations as heterogeneous when making national population forecasts. Points out the specific migration pattern, age composition, and fertility exhibited in large metropolitan areas, and suggests that the population role of large cities should be taken into account in looking at urbanization as an agent of demographic transition. Comments by T.R.Lakshmanan and A.Seifelnasr.-from Editor
1983	Industrial location policies and manufacturing employment change: the case of the Republic of Korea.Examines the impact of industrial development policies on industrial location since 1960s, distinguishing between spatial policies and those with no explicit spatial objectives. Although the former appear to have had some impact on industrial dispersal, the latter have resulted in increasing spatial concentration. The success of recent policy innovations will depend on effective implementation. Part of an issue devoted to national urban policies. Concludes with comments by G.C.Lim. -D.Conyers (CDS)
1982	Can the East Asian model of development be generalized?Export-led growth has become increasingly popular among analysts (and some governments) as a development strategy. Besides contrasting its virtues to the distortions of the import substitution model popular through the 1960s, advocates of the model frequently illustrate its merits by pointing to the remarkable success of its most prominent practitioners, the East Asian 'Gang of Four' (Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan). This study explores a possible limitation of the model, known as the fallacy of composition: while the model may work well if pursued by a limited number of countries, it may break down if a large majority of developing countries seeks to pursue it at the same time, because the resulting outpouring of manufactured exports might be more than Western markets could absorb. Protectionist response might be the result of attempts to generalize the East Asian export model of growth. ⓒ 1982.
1982	Economic development and rural industry in South Korea and TaiwanThis paper attempts to provide insights into the dynamics of rural industry by examining its historical performance in South Korea and Taiwan. The evidence suggests that with economic development, (i) industrial activity has shifted from the rural to the urban areas, but the shift has been much more dramatic in Korea than in Taiwan, and (ii) rural industry in the forms of secondary activity and non-factory production has declined while medium- and large-sized rural factories have become more important. The paper then explores the reasons for these changes and for the differences in rural industrial growth in the two countries. ⓒ 1982.
1982	The structure of production in South Korea's manufacturing sectorThis paper estimates a model of producer behavior for South Korean manufacturing that simultaneously identifies substitution elasticities and scale economies. A non-homothetic translog function is employed which takes on various other functional forms (i.e., Cobb-Douglas, Homothetic, Homogeneous) as special or limiting cases. Four significant conclusions are: (a) there is potential scale economies in each subsector of South Korean manufacturing, (b) the substitutabilities between factor inputs are relatively low, (c) factor demands are price elastic, (d) the scale economies are correlated with the factor intensity. ⓒ 1982.
1982	Stagflationary effects of monetary stabilization policies. A quantitative analysis of South KoreaWe present a quarterly macroeconomic model of South Korea that explicitly incorporates stylized facts about Korea's financial structure (absence of primary securities markets, existence of a curbmarket for credit, etc.). The model focuses on the linkage between financial and real sectors and explicitly incorporates the transmission channel of monetary policy into the supply side of the economy via the real costs of working capital ('('avallo-effect"). The econometric evidence presented here shows the relevance of this effect. Simulation runs with the model based on the estimated parameter values show strong stagflationary effects of restrictive monetary policy in the short run because of this transmission channel. ⓒ 1982.
1981	The North Korean model: Gaps and questionsNorth Korea has articulated a comprehensive strategy for economic, political, military, ideological and cultural independence, with sustained high growth (juche). Self-reliance, not self-sufficiency, is the stated goal and has been achieved to a high degree, especially in food, machines-tools and energy, in spite of the country having no oil. The political system is highly authoritarian and male-dominated, with special emphasis on the cult of Kim II Sung. The regime is highly secretive and information is unsystematic. There are exceptional methodological problems in evaluating the evidence. Korea is probably the most successful economy in any post-revolutionary society, but the relationship between authoritarian politics (in extreme isolation) and social and economic achievement is obscure. Important lessons can e learnt from the Korean 'model' but the problem is how to learn them. ⓒ 1981.
1979	A comparison of two models for income distribution planningThis article compares the results from two models developed to explore the relationship between policy instruments and income distribution in developing countries. The BACHUE model is a long-run economic-demographic model of the Philippines and the Adelman-Robinson model is a medium-term computable general equilibrium model of Korea. In spite of differences in focus and design, the two models yield similar conclusions. Although the size distribution of income is quite stable and hard to change, it is possible to achieve egalitarian development strategies with integrated, comprehensive sets of policies. However, the distribution of income by socioeconomic groups (an extended functional distribution) is much more sensitive to policy interventions, indicating the need to integrate economic and political analysis of distribution policies. In any case, a general equilibrium analysis is important since indirect effects are often crucial in determining the ultimate impact of a policy intervention. ⓒ 1979.
1978	The republic of Korea's experience with export-led industrial developmentThis paper is a summary of findings from the author's research conducted intermittently over the past seven years and reported elsewhere in greater detail for more specialized audiences. It begins with a brief history of the Republic of Korea's industrial incentive policies, followed by an examination of historical trends in the real effective exchange rates for exports and imports. Estimates of nominal and effective incentive rates for 1968 are summarized, and the changes that have taken place in the structure of the Republic of Korea's trade and production are quantified and related to its industrial incentive policies. The conclusion of the paper is that the Republic of Korea's outward-looking development strategy and the policy measures adopted to implement it have resulted in a generally efficient and equitable process of rapid industrialization. ⓒ 1978.
1977	The utilization of capital and the growth of output in a developing economy. The case of South Korean manufacturingThis paper presents the utilization rate of capital equipment in the S. Korean manufacturing industry during 1962-1971. The aggregate utilization rate is shown to have increased at an annual rate of about 8%. The level of utilization in S. Korea is found to be generally lower even in 1971 than in the U.S. in 1962, both at the aggregate and sectoral levels. The rise in the utilization rate is shown to have contributed nearly as much as investment has in the growth of manufacturing output. The influence of the residual component declines from 36% to 8% of the recorded growth of output when the increase in the utilization rate is properly allowed for. ⓒ 1977.
1967	COMPARISON OF THE SOCIALIST ECONOMIES IN CHINA AND KOREAThe socialist economies of the Far East, Mainland China and North Korea, started their economic development from the condition of colonial agricultural countries, so that the initial social reforms, especially Land Reform, are of extremely great significance for their development. in the socialist economies the reconstruction of their economies comes earlier than socialist industrialization, and, in particular, the agricultural co?operatives precede mechanization and electrification. The organized use of labour power as one of the productive forces becomes important and this seems characteristic of the Asian pattern of socialism. From such a viewpoint as this, the present author tries to compare the two economies. Copyright ⓒ 1967, Wiley Blackwell. All rights reserved
2003	Miracle growth in the twentieth century - international comparisons of East Asian DevelopmentUsing Maddison's data, we compare levels and growth rates of real GDP per capita between Korea and Taiwan, along with Japan, and 53 other countries in the world, covering the prewar and postwar periods (1901-92). Both countries, along with Japan, experienced very rapid growth in both periods, especially Korea, whose growth rates ranked third or fourth in the prewar period. After WWII, however, Korea fell steadily below Taiwan, and both fell continuously behind Japan until 1970 when they simultaneously began to catch up. Finally, using Perron's test, we analyze structural changes or continuity between the two periods. Both domestic and international economic conditions are examined to explain the findings. 짤 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
2019	From Getting the Development Question Wrong to Bringing Emancipation Back In: Re-reading Alice AmsdenThis article appraises Alice Amsden's theory of development. In particular, it focuses on Amsden's juxtaposing of the concrete and the universal, and the national and the global, as antithetical, and her prioritizing of the former over the latter. The author argues that this key feature of Amsden's work reduces the concept of development to a nationally determined process and empties capitalist development of its class content. It is argued that Amsden's primary focus on why and how development occurs in the Third World bypasses the question of what development is, thereby reinforcing ?쁔hird World developmentalism?? and removes the emancipatory content from the concept of development. Given the continued legacy of Amsden's theory, as evidenced in recent debates, and the inadequacy of extant Marxist critiques in addressing its conceptual and political problems, this article proposes an alternative conceptualization of concrete?밽eneral and national?밽lobal relations based on Marx's critique of political economy, and calls for the resuscitation of the emancipatory content of the concept of development.
2017	Rethinking the East Asian developmental state in its historical context: finance, geopolitics and bureaucracyThis paper critically revisits the statist literature that stresses the central role of the developmental state in steering economic development in East Asia. Based on a critique of the existing literature on the state?셲 mobilization of financial resources and implementation of industrial policy between the late 1950s and the 1980s, it argues that East Asian industrial transformation must be situated in the peculiar historical contexts of favourable geopolitical imperatives and contested domestic bureaucratic rationality. This rethinking is useful because more developing countries are now following the kind of top-down state governance and interventionist policies pursued previously by these East Asian developmental states. And yet they might not give careful considerations to these important historical specificities underpinning the success or failure of such developmentalist policies.
2009	Modeling the self-propagating growth function of science and technological diffusion for selected Asian countriesIn the transition to a knowledge-based economy, many Asian emerging countries attempt to raise the national investment to develop their science and technological capacity. Science and technological production can be the result of self-propagating growth in the process of diffusion. By theoretical analysis and empirical demonstration, this paper attempts to analyze science and technology by investigating the self-propagating behavior of science and technological diffusion for South Korea, Malaysia and Japan. The dynamics of the self-propagating behavior in these selected countries are examined through the logistic growth function with a dynamic carrying capacity. Evidence suggests that this function is particularly relevant for an advanced country like Japan. 짤 2009 IEEE.
2020	Korea?셲 cultural industry clusters 20 years on: evolving policy and practiceSince 2000 South Korea has implemented discontinuous local cultural and creative industry (CCI) cluster and development policies, especially in non-capital regions. The number of CCIs has increased, but to different extents in different regions, and labour productivity has improved. Disparities between the capital and non-capital regions have, however, increased notwithstanding the goal of balanced regional development. Challenges therefore remain. In future, more attention should be paid to cultural genre and local cultural specificity and to research and development and innovation capacity with a new policy scheme based on a quadruple helix approach.
2018	Trade-employment linkage of FTAs in Korea: Inter- and intra-industry reallocations of production resourcesPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to empirically examine the link between trade liberalization and employment through the export channel under Korea?셲 FTAs by distinguish firm heterogeneity (i.e. size) as well as sector-level international competitiveness (i.e. comparative advantage). Design/methodology/approach: Using the firm-level data during 2000??009, the authors drive the difference-in-difference-in-difference model on Wagner (2007) with the dependent variables of labor productivity and employments and the independent variables of free trade agreement, revealed comparative advantage, firm size and payroll costs. Findings: The authors find that the economic benefit of FTAs in Korea is not concentrated in large enterprises or firms with comparative advantage. Accordingly, the authors conclude that FTA or trade liberalization brings positive effects to business as a whole, rather than to specific industries or group of firms. Research limitations/implications: The Korean Government has continued its policy of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) for a long time by recognizing them as socially underprivileged. According to the results of this study, an increase in export through FTAs improves firm?셲 labor productivity and increases employment, especially for SMEs, which can be a practical and efficient support for them. Originality/value: The paper provides the empirical evidences that how the effects of trade liberalization on labor depend on firm heterogeneity, industrial competitiveness and/or both and thus how labor is reallocated in response to trade liberalization in Korea.
2015	An examination of macroeconomic fluctuations in Korea exploiting a Markov-switching DSGE approachThis paper estimates a Markov-switching dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (MS-DSGE) model that allows shifts in the monetary policy rule coefficients as well as the shock volatilities with Korean data ranged from 1976 to 2013. We find that allowing for the regime-switching aspect both in monetary policy rules and shock volatilities is a crucial setup in improving the model's fit with Korean data. The regime estimates indicate that monetary policy more aggressively reacts to inflation, but less strongly to output, after launching the Inflation Targeting (IT) policy in the late 1990s. The identified regimes have three implications on macroeconomic performance in Korea. First, the introduction of the IT monetary policy has contributed to a sharp reduction in the level as well as the volatility of inflation in the 2000s. Second, technology shocks are the most important drivers of output fluctuations in Korea as the major economic crises in Korea are mainly explained by adverse shocks on technology. Finally, it would have been possible to achieve higher output and lower inflation simultaneously if the IT monetary policy regime was maintained over the entire sample period.
2010	Exchange rates, price levels, and inflation targeting: Evidence from Asian countriesThis study examines how the adoption of inflation-targeting influenced exchange rate pass-through and volatility in four Asian countries -Indonesia, South Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand - over the sample period of January 1990 to June 2007. We find that adopting inflation targeting helped reduce pass-through in South Korea, and Thailand, while the results are less clear for Indonesia and the Philippines. Nevertheless, the findings indicate that inflation targeting caused a decline in exchange rate volatility in all four countries. The important lesson from the experiences of these Asian countries is that the adoption of inflation targeting contributes to achieving the ultimate goal of inflation stability through reducing exchange rate pass-through or variability. 짤 2010 Elsevier B.V.
2011	Investigating the effect of exchange rate changes on china's processed exportsMany argue that the renminbi needs to appreciate to rebalance China's trade. However, empirical evidence on the effects of an RMB appreciation on China's exports has been mixed for the largest category of exports, processed exports. Since much of the value-added of these goods comes from parts and components produced in Japan, South Korea, and other East Asian supply chain countries, it is important to control for exchange rate changes in these countries. Employing DOLS techniques and quarterly data, this paper finds that exchange rate appreciations across supply chain countries would cause a much larger drop in processed exports than a unilateral appreciation of the RMB. 짤 2011 Elsevier Inc.
2009	Complementarity among international asset holdingsBy utilizing a unique dataset and employing a variant of gravity models, we find strong evidence for the presence of complementarities among bank loans, short- and long-term debts, and portfolio equity holdings. The complementarities can be partially explained by common factors of standard gravity models such as economy size, state of economic development, and information cost proxies (such as distance), as well as bilateral trade in goods. However, we find an additional direct channel of complementarities among financial asset holdings that cannot be explained by these gravity factors. The complementarities are also robust to the consideration of unobserved fixed effects of both source and destination countries. We find evidence that the sequential reinforcing impact of bank lending on portfolio asset holdings is greater than the impact of portfolio asset holdings on bank lending. We also find that bank loans lead to subsequent portfolio asset holdings by partially alleviating information frictions. However, the role of portfolio investment seems to be independent from the information channel. The mutual reinforcement effect among cross-border asset holdings is stronger in destination countries with better quality of institutions. Overall our findings suggest that, while there may exist pecking order of cross-border investment due to differing sensitivity of capital flows to various costs and frictions, once a country receives a form of cross-border investment, this tends to induce other forms of investment and thus a deeper and more balanced financial integration. J. Japanese Int. Economies 23 (1) (2009) 37-55. 짤 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2018	Performance drivers in the casino industry of South KoreaThe purpose of this study is to understand the relationship between the performance drivers and financial performance of the South Korean casino industry. Data were collected from all 17 casinos in South Korea throughout 2015 and evaluated with path analysis using AMOS. Results revealed significant relationships among visitor type (domestic vs. foreign), total number of visitors, and casino revenue. Moreover, the total number of visitors affected the table games and revenues of casinos. Among implications for the casino industry, casino managers can use the findings to prioritise performance drivers to increase revenues.
2011	Determinants of staging categories for tariff elimination in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean negotiations of free trade agreementsChina, Japan, and Korea have signed free trade agreement (FTA) negotiations with many countries since the late 1990s. This study analyzes the determinants of staging categories for tariff elimination in FTA negotiations of these East Asian countries by using an ordered probit model. The two key findings are (a) each country had set up a product scope for tariff elimination and exclusion list efficiently to maximize its national economic interests, and (b) the staging categories were determined by product-level competitiveness, industrial characteristics, and political factors. 짤 2011 The Earth Institute at Columbia University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
2015	The role of partner communication on cooperative R&amp;D between SMEs and public research institutes in KoreaCooperative R&D activities between SMEs and public research institutions (PRIs) in Korea have increased recently. The Korean Government encourages PRIs to promote technological collaboration with SMEs to overcome limitations in the R&D capabilities of SMEs. However, there is limited research on R&D collaborations between SMEs and PRIs. This paper examines the role of communications on cooperative R&D between SMEs and PRIs in Korea based on a survey of 173 Korean SMEs. Empirical results show that contract clarity and communication intensity associated significantly with the outcome of cooperative R&D that positively reflected the high-context culture of Korea. Communication intensity showed a significant moderating effect on the relationship between power asymmetry and the performance of cooperative R&D. Communication intensity also exhibited a moderating effect between information asymmetry and the performance of cooperative R&D. Therefore, frequent and intensive communication activities between cooperative R&D partners can facilitate technological knowledge exchanges, such as complex and tacit knowledge, that can help overcome organisational conflict.
2012	Yen-synchronization of floating East Asian currencies: A regime-switching regression model and micro-structural analysisUsing a regime-switching regression model, we find evidence of synchronization between the Swiss-franc exchange rates of floating East Asian currencies and the Swiss-franc-Japanese-yen exchange rate over the period 1999-2006. The volatility of Swiss-franc-East-Asian currencies' exchange rates is higher during the synchronization period than during the de-synchronization period. Contrary to traditional arguments concerning the yen-bloc, we find that the Export-Similarity Index and Foreign Portfolio Investment between Japan and East Asian countries are the two main determinants of yen-synchronization in the region. Finally, micro-structural analysis shows that the weeks of synchronization is greater when the yen is strong for Korea and Taiwan, but there are no asymmetric responses for Thailand, Indonesia, or the Philippines. 짤 2012.
2011	Corporate venture capital and its contribution to intermediate goods firms in South KoreaSet by government, corporate, financial and individual sources, venture capitalists in Korea have adapted themselves to the new and uncertain venture capital market through stand-alone and syndicated investments. The present study raises questions about whether various financial sources contributed differentially to their portfolio firms during the market boom of 2000. Results show that no single capital source showed better performance, and only corporate venture capitalists contributed to intermediate goods firms. The latter finding might reflect the unique ability of corporate venture capitalists to use vertical value-chain linkages for their investments. 짤 2011 The Authors. Asian Economic Journal 짤 2011 East Asian Economic Association and Blackwell Publishing Pty Ltd.
2019	Foreign Ownership and Firm Innovation: Evidence from KoreaThis study examines whether foreign equity investment promotes domestic firms??innovation activities. Using panel data on the Korean firms during the 1999??013 period, we find that foreign ownership has a positive effect on firms??innovation activities. Furthermore, we also show that, as compared to non-chaebol firms, chaebol firms??innovation activity becomes much greater with the increase of foreign ownership. Finally, we investigate industry-level spillover effects of innovation. Specifically, we find that foreign ownership promotes innovation activities via forward linkage, the effect of which is also more pronounced in chaebol firms.
2015	Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership and Trans-Pacific Partnership: Policy Options of ChinaAs a result of deadlocked multilateral trade negotiations, many countries have embarked on the establishment of bilateral and regional trade agreements. Using the Global Trade Analysis Project database and a computable general equilibrium model, our paper focuses on the impacts of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) and the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) on the Chinese economy under three scenarios. The results suggest that when only the TTIP is realized, Chinese economic variables are negatively affected. When both the TTIP and the TPP are realized and China is excluded, the combined damage to the Chinese economy is higher than the damage with the TTIP alone. However, the inclusion of China in the TPP has a positively effect on economic variables in China. This indicates that the impacts of China's participation in the TPP compensate for the negative impacts of the TTIP. Therefore, China should consider being part of the TPP to offset the negative impacts of the TTIP.
2014	Interindustry Knowledge Transfer and Absorption via Two Channels: The Case of KoreaThis paper investigates interindustry knowledge spillovers using input-output (IO) data and patent information, since spillovers can arise from different types of sources and linkages. Economic transactions of intermediate goods are used to track embodied knowledge flows with the data derived from Korean IO tables. In terms of disembodied knowledge flows, a technology proximity matrix is constructed using patent information. The empirical results show that patterns of interdependences among industries are different and this implies that policy-makers should take into account the interdependences between industries even when planning industry-specific policies. Moreover, excessive concentration of R&D investment needs to be improved. 짤 2014 짤 2014 Institute of East and West Studies, Yonsei University, Seoul.
2018	Business Groups in Emerging Markets: A Survey and AnalysisResearch in the economics, finance, and management literature has sought to describe the predominance of business groups using an economic lens for decades. Yet, theory still falls short of explaining the role of business groups as a substitute for external markets as their influence only increases as countries develop. This article synthesizes the literature and posits that three main problems hinder its explanatory power; the difficulty of defining and identifying business groups, the focus on social welfare implications, and that the embeddedness of the central theories in a decidedly Anglo-American, developed economy perspective. Finally, suggestions for addressing these issues, along with accompanying hypotheses, are presented to further future research.
2019	Patterns of international technology acquisition in a post catch-up country: the case of Korean firmsThis study aims to examine the use of international technology acquisition strategies in post catch-up countries, using the case of Korea. For this purpose, we collected a unique data set that describes technology acquisition activities in all Korean firms, from 2009 to 2011, as well as the basic characteristics of each firm. Eight unique acquisition patterns are specified through the self-organizing map (SOM), and a set of follow-up analyses are conducted to provide practical and discussible insights. Based on the eight patterns identified at the firm level, we argue that technology acquisition activities are diversified in post catch-up countries, relative to catch-up countries, with improvements of their internal capabilities. The research contributes to an expanded understanding of innovation strategies in the post catch-up context, and has practical implications that facilitate the innovation of firms in such countries, through international collaboration.
2018	East Asia's new developmentalism: state capacity, climate change and low-carbon developmentThis paper argues that to understand the relevance of developmental states in East Asia and elsewhere, we need to focus on the changing development agenda in the early twenty-first century, especially how this connects with the global challenge of climate change and thereby sustainable, low-carbon development. It combines theories on state capacity and ecological modernisation to form the ?쁭ew developmentalism??concept. This is applied to study revitalised and refocused forms of state capacity aimed at realising the transformative economic objectives associated with sustainable development. New developmentalism helps us understand not only current state capacity practice in a climate challenged world but also how we have moved beyond original conceptions of developmental statism. It may be understood in the wider context of the sustainable development agenda and climate interventionism. As is argued, new developmentalism is most clearly evident in East Asia but can be applied in a wider geographic sense where strong forms of developmental state capacity are exercised towards meeting transformative sustainable development goals.
2011	Emerging donors from a recipient perspective: An institutional analysis of foreign aid in CambodiaDebate about the impact of so-called "emerging donors" is becoming increasingly heated. The common reaction to these donors, as distinct from that accorded to traditional donors, has had the unfortunate effect of obscuring two important aspects: (1) commonalities between emerging donors and traditional Development Assistance Committee (DAC) donors; and (2) diversity among the emerging donors themselves. With primary focus on the second aspect, this article examines the effects of four emerging donors-China, India, South Korea, and Thailand-on Cambodia's development, with a specific focus on the processes of aid provision employed by these new donors. This article also challenges the conventional view that aid fragmentation should be reduced a priori. 짤 2011 Elsevier Ltd.
2015	Moderating role of external networks and mediating effect of innovation performance on the relationship between technology orientation and firm performanceThis study investigated the moderating effect of external networks on the relationship between technology orientation and innovation performance as well as the mediating role of innovation performance in the link between technology orientation and financial performance. Our study tested the research model using hierarchical regression analysis for data collected from 352 organisations in South Korea. The results revealed that external networks appear to have a positive moderating effect on the relationship between technology orientation and innovation performance and that innovation performance mediates the associations between technology orientation and financial performance. The implications and limitations of this study are presented.
2012	Effect of venture capital and government support on the performance of venture firms in KoreaThis paper examines the effects of venture capital and government support on venture firms within the context of Korea. First, in the midst of an underdeveloped venture capital industry, it is necessary to understand if venture capital helps venture firms gain a fast Initial Public Offering (IPO) and increase financial performance. Second, this research examines if government support influences the IPO and financial performance of a firm among venture companies. We used a sample of Korean 727 venture firms to employ regression and survival analyses based on the types of dependent variables. Venture-capital-backed firms exhibited relatively faster performance growth and achieved faster IPO rates, although starting with low profitability as a startup. In addition, government support presented no impact on the financial gains and the IPO speed of a firm. This finding implies that Korean venture firms (despite a less-developed venture capital industry) have enjoyed a similar venture capital impact of a highly advanced venture capital industry. Regarding government support, government-subsidized firms exhibited a non-significant improvement of financial performance and a lowered IPO achievement. Policy implications dealing with a less mature venture capital industry are discussed. 짤 2012 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2018	Corporate Restructuring and Leveraged Buyouts in the Asia Pacific 1980??010Leveraged buyout markets in the Asia Pacific have grown substantially since the 1980s and now play an important role in the market for corporate control. This paper undertakes an international comparative analysis of the emergence and growth of leveraged buyout firms in the Asia Pacific and their role in corporate restructuring, with a focus on Australia, Japan and South Korea. Three distinct periods in the development of these markets are identified. The paper highlights the importance of state involvement and changes in domestic economic policy around financial crises, where governments created new rules to facilitate buyouts as an organisational restructuring solution to distressed companies.
2016	Pollution, energy use, GDP and trade: estimating the long-run relationship for VietnamSince the beginning of economic reform in the 1980s and, in particular, with its openness to international trade accelerating since the 1990s, the Vietnamese economy has registered significant growth. At the same time, energy consumption and the level of pollution in Vietnam has also increased. This article aims to focus on the link between openness to trade and pollution in Vietnam. Due to lack of data, very few existing studies have focused on Vietnam. Using annual data from1980 to 2011 and employing the bounds testing approach to cointegration, based on an autoregressive distributed lagged (ARDL) model, we find that there is a statistically significant long-run relationship amongst pollution, openness to trade, energy consumption and real national income in Vietnam. This conclusion continues to hold when the possibility of a structural break in the relationship is allowed for using the Gregory-Hansen approach to cointegration. Analysis of the cointegration relationship suggests that, in response to any exogenous shock to the system, adjustment back to the long-run equilibrium is very fast.
2018	The employment impact of Poland?셲 special economic zones policyIn 1994, Poland launched a special economic zones experiment to maintain employment structures outside the major cities. Using difference-in-difference estimations, this paper evaluates whether the policy has been successful in its primary objective, which is to sustain employment in gminas (communes) more likely to be negatively affected by the economic transition. A significant and positive effect of the policy on employment is documented, but with some negative spillovers at the policy level as zones start to spread rapidly. Accounting for covariates, timing, policy spillovers and reducing imbalance through matching, the average treatment effect for employment is estimated to be 60%.
2014	Global models of networked organization, the positional power of nations and economic developmentInterdisciplinary literature on global commodity chains (GCCs)/global value chains (GVCs) and global production networks (GPNs) contends that inter-firm power differentials within globally networked forms of economic organization have implications for the developmental trajectories of nation-states. In this article, I advance these literatures in three ways. First, I bridge the two approaches by elaborating an exchange-theoretic conceptualization of inter-firm power that is latent in the two literatures. This conceptualization focuses narrowly on the determinants of inter-firm power asymmetries and is useful for explaining why actual production networks vary in terms of the relative power of buyers and producers. Second, I develop an empirical framework to advance basic research on the link between globally networked forms of economic organization and national economic development. In particular, I derive cross-nationally and temporally comparable country-level measurements of the average bargaining power of a country's resident firms using industry-specific international exchange (trade) networks. I demonstrate the validity of these indices through a historical analysis of trade networks in the transport equipment and garment industries and by analysing cross-national variations in wages in the two industries. Finally, I conclude by charting a parallel path for GCC/GVC and GPN research that implicates global models of network organization in macro-comparative analyses of economic development. 짤 2013 짤 2013 Taylor & Francis.
2017	The value of Chinese patents: An empirical investigation of citation lagsChina has been experiencing a substantial growth in patent applications. But is this increase accompanied by a similar increase in patent value? To assess this question, we examine the citation lag of Chinese patents as a proxy of patent value in comparison with patents from the US, Europe, Japan, and Korea. Our empirical analysis comprises a unique data set of 60,000 patents with priority years between 2000 and 2010. Utilizing Cox regressions, our results show that Chinese patents suffer from a large citation lag in comparison to international patents, indicating a lower value. This is especially true for patents filed domestically. However, we find empirical support for an increasing patent value in more recent patents. China shows a strong dynamic in the field of patenting and our results suggest that the gap between Chinese patents and international patents might narrow down in the near future.
2014	Choosing multiple offshoring strategies: Determinants and complementarityIn contrast to the existing offshoring literature that typically views foreign outsourcing and integration as alternative strategies, the simultaneous use of these two offshoring strategies by multinational firms becomes common practice in many countries. In this paper, we employ bivariate choice models to investigate firm-level decision-making on foreign outsourcing and insourcing strategies. Analyzing Korean firm-level data, we find a possible complementarity between the two strategies and that a firm's choice of multiple sourcing strategies is related to its expected gains from increased bargaining power, reduced price risk in purchasing inputs, and costs saved in the production process. Furthermore, our empirical results reveal distinctive roles of various firm-specific characteristics in determining the two foreign sourcing strategies adopted by Korean manufacturing firms. 짤 2014 Elsevier Inc.
2018	Long run effect of public grants and tax credits on R&amp;D investment: A non-stationary panel data approachR&D investment is a key factor in long run economic growth. This paper analyzes the effectiveness of public grants and tax credits used to promote long-run R&D investment. Cointegration techniques have been used to deal with the existence of common trends, which might lead to spurious correlation. In this context, we propose a new empirical strategy applying DOLS and FMOLS estimators to the cointegrated firms and the LSDV estimator to non-cointegrated firms. Cointegrated firms are those that invest persistently in R&D while non-cointegrated firms invest in a non-continuous or occasional way. A panel of 237 Spanish manufacturing firms for the 1990??009 period is used. We find evidence that public grants are more effective for firms where R&D investment is persistent and the quality of projects matters. In addition, our results suggest that a tax credit is suitable for boosting long-run R&D investment as a whole, especially if the base amount of tax credit is incremental. Surprisingly, incremental tax credit is only in force in a few countries such as Italy, Korea, Mexico, Portugal, United States and Spain.
2011	Revealing the international spillovers structure of innovation for Asian regionThe objective of this study aims to provide an overall revelation of the magnitude, frame, flow, and output creation effect of cross-national and cross-sectoral spillover of innovation within Asia. Methodologically, Dietzenbacher's framework for evaluating the innovative spillover effect is modified and extended to a cross-national and cross-sectoral context for accommodating this purpose, accompanied by the utilization of the Asian International I/O (AIO) table for the year 2000. Several results are thus achieved: (1) For the spillover structure, it is understood that the inter-sectoral dependence and vertical specialization in production serves as the nexus for the skeleton of rent spillover. (2) The extent of process innovative spillover is at a level of approximately 90%, while the extent of product innovative spillover is roughly in the 40-50% range. (3) On average, a 1% process innovation would create the total Asian output by a 0.0025-0.1387% margin, and a 1% product innovation would contribute 0.0010-0.0575% of the total output. (4) The United States, Japan, and China rank as the top three countries equipped with the capability of creating the most plentiful innovative spillover effect on the Asian region overall. (5) The United States and Japan still occupy the position of leading flying geese to date, while China might emerge as an industrial innovative leading flying goose in the near future. (6) Under the prerequisite of regional development, this study has tabulated the sector rankings according to the strength of overall spillover effect by country as a reference for tactically reallocating industrial and innovative policy from a regional development perspective. 짤 2011 Institute of East and West Studies.
2014	A cross-country study of competitiveness of the shipping industryFor the last 50 years, international trade has been increased in both volume and speed, which has in turn brought about ever-increasing competition among major maritime nations and required a corresponding shipping policy. This study is to identify and weight the factors influencing a country's shipping competitiveness and shipping policy. According to the results of questionnaires and Delphi method, 24 factors have been chosen from a practical perspective while weights of factors are determined by the application of analytic hierarchy process (AHP) from a theoretical perspective. Then, on the basis of factors and their weights, a shipping competitiveness index (SCI) is constructed to quantitatively measure and rank the main maritime countries. In addition, the results of cluster analysis, based on each country's present and potential competitiveness, provide some implications and policy suggestion for each group of nations with similar background and development conditions. 짤 2014 Elsevier Ltd.
2011	Temporal Causal Relationship between Resource Use and Economic Growth in East ChinaThe present paper attempts to combine cointegration theory and the material flow analysis approach to examine the causal relationship between resource use and real GDP in Jiangsu Province in East China. The study considers the period from 1990 to 2007. We use direct material input as the proxy variable for resource use. Our estimation indicates that real GDP and resource use are cointegrated and there is only unidirectional long-run Granger causality running from resource use to real GDP, but not vice versa. The estimation results mean that resources are a limiting factor in terms of economic growth, and, therefore, strategies should be adopted for more vigorous economic development and consistent resource use in East China. Furthermore, the novel idea and methodology involved in the present study can be readily extended to cover other regions for the analysis of the relationship between resource use and economic growth. 짤 2011 The Authors China & World Economy 짤 2011 Institute of World Economics and Politics, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.
2004	Interest rates and investment in East Asia: An empirical evaluation of various financial liberalisation hypothesesThe article attempts to shed light on the appropriate interest rate policy in the process of economic development. To this end, we examine whether higher interest rates lead to higher investment (and growth) in four East Asian countries. We find that the investment rate went up with real interest rates up to 9 per cent in all four countries but started declining at still higher interest rates in two of the countries. Further, a banking crisis occurred in each of the three countries for which the real interest rates exceeded 9 per cent. This evidence rejects the 'neo-structuralist' argument. Nor does it support unbridled financial liberalisation. Yet, it provides only limited support to Stiglitz's case for 'mild financial repression (real interest rates near zero)' since reducing real interest rates from say, 6 to 3 or 0 per cent would have reduced investment. The optimum policy seems to be closest to McKinnon's 'restrained financial liberalisation' policy, that is, liberalisation with a moderate upper limit (about 6 or 7 per cent) on the real interest rates. 짤 2004 Taylor and Francis Ltd.
2017	Key factors in developing transit trade corridors in Northeast AsiaPurpose: The purpose of this paper is to investigate key critical factors for developing transit trade corridors (TTCs) in optimizing trade and logistics performance, taking into account economic, geographic and political concerns among countries in the Northeast Asia region, which have been dynamically developing TTCs to optimize trade and logistics performance in association with development of transport infrastructure in the Greater Tumen Region located in the Northeast Asia. Design/methodology/approach: This research explores key factors affecting the TTC through a comprehensive literature review in tandem with expert survey. Factor analysis, both exploratory and confirmatory, is employed to further investigate the underlying factors affecting more efficient development of a TTC. Findings: This research has drawn eight underlying factors affecting the design of a TTC: development and policy implications; safety, security and political concerns; environmental protection; financing and investment; soft infrastructure; hard infrastructure; geography and landscape; and corridor performance. Research limitations/implications: This paper has a limited geographical scope of the Northeast Asia. Therefore, more primary data collection would be useful in future work. Development of International trade corridor and TTC is critical in northeast Asia for moving goods through designated geographical paths. The key factors drawn in this paper contributes not only to promoting its related services and information (across borders) with the provision of policy support and related facilities for TTC but also to lowering logistics costs and improving trades in the northeast Asian region. As a result, the countries in the region will accelerate their regional economies in collaboration with international bodies and framework, such as UNDP, Greater Tumen Initiative and One Belt One Road Initiative. Practical implications: The eight underlying factors the authors identified in this research will be valuable for policy-makers to design TTCs and consequently the research will contribute to regional economies in northeast Asia by establishing efficient trade and transport routes among the countries in the region. Social implications: Developing TTCs is a kind of platform and infrastructure to accelerate cargo movements and people movements in the northeast Asia. Users of TTCs will benefit their businesses thanks to an efficient logistics system and lower logistics costs, which result in promoting international and regional trade in the region. Originality/value: There has not been any research done on factors to consider in developing TTCs in the world, whose consequence is no readily available reference that can support a systematic assessment and decision-making in development of TTCs. The findings of this research provide a helpful reference for policy-makers, potential users and developers of TTCs to refer in planning and developing them.
2015	Proposing a portfolio model for performance management of Korea's Health Technology R&amp;D Programme using DEA and MPI: a translational research caseRecently, the importance of health technology related to human life and health has increasingly grown due to population ageing and desired improvements in the quality of life. The Korean government has been continuously increasing its strategic R&D investments through the Health Technology R&D Programme. Therefore, there is a growing interest in the efficiency of public R&D investments. This paper measures and compares the changes in both efficiency and productivity over time, analyses the cause leading to changes in productivity, and proposes a strategic portfolio model for managing the performance of the Translational Research Programme by using data envelopment analysis and Malmquist productivity index. The results conveyed that the productivity of six diseases, among 12 highly efficient diseases, was increased while the productivity of the remaining six diseases was decreased. On the other hand, the productivity of six diseases was increased, among nine low-efficient diseases, even though the relative efficiency was low. Finally, it is important to manage an R&D programme considering the two aspects together: producing higher performance with the given inputs and continuously improving productivity over time. These results are expected to have implications for policy in terms of effective performance management with regard to national R&D programmes.
2011	Catch-up process and underlying knowledge flows: Focusing on geographic localisation at a national dimensionOne of the factors making technological catch-up possible has been suggested as an access to external technology or knowledge. Considering that just accessing external knowledge is not sufficient, this paper tries to approach this issue from the perspective of absorptive capacity building and enhancing and related knowledge and knowledge flows. From the perspective of national dimension, absorptive capacity enhancing can be regarded as having geographic elements in knowledge flows within national territory. This paper tries to utilise patent citation data made by USPTO (United States Patent and Trademark Office) for finding out the characteristics of knowledge flows which has been underlying the catch-up phenomenon of catching-up countries. We can find out that even though there is a marked difference between advanced countries and catching-up economies in terms of strong or weak localisation of knowledge flows, it is evident that the geographic localisation exists in spite of the heavy dependence on external knowledge. In addition, even in catching-up countries, technological development accompanies a strengthening of the localisation of knowledge flows, from weak to strong as well as from low to high. Therefore, we discover that technological catch-up necessitates the active attitude toward available external knowledge, not just the passive attitude, and some mechanism to spillover the adapted knowledge to other innovative firms, and a way to innovate to confirm this attitude and mechanism. 짤 2011 Copyright Korean Society for Innovation Management and Economics (KOSIME).
2012	Istanbul Metrob체s: first intercontinental bus rapid transitWhilst debate comparing the technologies of bus-based transit ways with rail systems continues, the comparative cost advantages and capability of responding to rapidly changing mobility needs offered by Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) systems are well acknowledged. Istanbul has recently developed its 42. km BRT network with further extensions currently being constructed. The Istanbul BRT system (Metrob체s) consists of three main sections. The first section (2007) was initially built on the European side of the city through a high demand arterial and its extension as the section was completed in 2008. It received criticism for having been preferred over rail alternatives. The third section (2009) runs over one of the two Istanbul Strait (Bosporus Strait) Bridges connecting Asia and Europe, by which Metrob체s has uniquely acquired the distinction of crossing a major water barrier and connecting two continents. Istanbul Strait is a major transportation bottleneck and source of congestion and Metrob체s is the only transit system for crossings. Shortly after the opening of the bridge section, the whole system has recorded a directional capacity of 24,000. passengers/h and patronage of 620,000 daily ridership. The number of passengers attracted from car users and intermediate forms of public transportation is also notable. This paper first contributes to the BRT literature by introducing this special and recent BRT system with all its planning and operational aspects. Furthermore, for policy guidance, Metrob체s is evaluated as to whether it has made effective inputs for sustainable development and mobility aims in Istanbul. 짤 2012 Elsevier Ltd.
2019	The KOF Globalisation Index ??revisitedWe introduce the revised version of the KOF Globalisation Index, a composite index measuring globalization for every country in the world along the economic, social and political dimension. The original index was introduced by Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091??110, 2006) and updated in Dreher et al. (2008). This second revision of the index distinguishes between de facto and de jure measures along the different dimensions of globalization. We also disentangle trade and financial globalization within the economic dimension of globalization and use time-varying weighting of the variables. The new index is based on 43 instead of 23 variables in the previous version. Following Dreher (Applied Economics, 38(10):1091??110, 2006), we use the new index to examine the effect of globalization on economic growth. The results suggest that de facto and de jure globalization influence economic growth differently. Future research should use the new KOF Globalisation Index to re-examine other important consequences of globalization and why globalization was proceeding rapidly in some countries, such as South Korea, but less so in others. The KOF Globalisation Index can be downloaded from http://www.kof.ethz.ch/globalisation/.
2021	A Survey on Knowledge Graphs: Representation, Acquisition, and ApplicationsHuman knowledge provides a formal understanding of the world. Knowledge graphs that represent structural relations between entities have become an increasingly popular research direction toward cognition and human-level intelligence. In this survey, we provide a comprehensive review of the knowledge graph covering overall research topics about: 1) knowledge graph representation learning; 2) knowledge acquisition and completion; 3) temporal knowledge graph; and 4) knowledge-aware applications and summarize recent breakthroughs and perspective directions to facilitate future research. We propose a full-view categorization and new taxonomies on these topics. Knowledge graph embedding is organized from four aspects of representation space, scoring function, encoding models, and auxiliary information. For knowledge acquisition, especially knowledge graph completion, embedding methods, path inference, and logical rule reasoning are reviewed. We further explore several emerging topics, including metarelational learning, commonsense reasoning, and temporal knowledge graphs. To facilitate future research on knowledge graphs, we also provide a curated collection of data sets and open-source libraries on different tasks. In the end, we have a thorough outlook on several promising research directions.
2017	Knowledge graph embedding: A survey of approaches and applicationsKnowledge graph (KG) embedding is to embed components of a KG including entities and relations into continuous vector spaces, so as to simplify the manipulation while preserving the inherent structure of the KG. It can benefit a variety of downstream tasks such as KG completion and relation extraction, and hence has quickly gained massive attention. In this article, we provide a systematic review of existing techniques, including not only the state-of-The-Arts but also those with latest trends. Particularly, we make the review based on the type of information used in the embedding task. Techniques that conduct embedding using only facts observed in the KG are first introduced. We describe the overall framework, specific model design, typical training procedures, as well as pros and cons of such techniques. After that, we discuss techniques that further incorporate additional information besides facts. We focus specifically on the use of entity types, relation paths, textual descriptions, and logical rules. Finally, we briefly introduce how KG embedding can be applied to and benefit a wide variety of downstream tasks such as KG completion, relation extraction, question answering, and so forth.
2009	Varieties of Asian capitalism: Toward an institutional theory of Asian enterpriseIn this paper we respond to calls for an institution-based perspective on strategy. With its emphasis upon mimetic, coercive, and normative isomorphism, institutional theory has earned a deterministic reputation and seems an unlikely foundation on which to construct a theory of strategy. However, a second movement in institutional theory is emerging that gives greater emphasis to creativity and agency. We develop this approach by highlighting co-evolutionary processes that are shaping the varieties of capitalism (VoC) in Asia. To do so, we examine the extent to which the VoC model can be fruitfully applied in the Asian context. In the spirit of the second movement of institutional theory, we describe three processes in which firm strategy collectively and intentionally feeds back to shape institutions: (1) filling institutional voids, (2) retarding institutional innovation, and (3) deploying institutional escape. We outline the key contributions contained in the articles of this Special Issue and discuss a research agenda generated by the VoC perspective. 짤 Springer Science + Business Media, LLC 2009.
2003	French capitalism transformed, yet still a third variety of capitalismRather than one or two varieties of capitalism, this paper argues that there are still at least three in Europe, following along lines of development from the three post-war models: market capitalism, characteristic of Britain; managed capitalism, typical of Germany; and state capitalism, epitomized by France. While France's state capitalism has been transformed through market-oriented reforms, it has become neither market capitalist nor managed capitalist. Rather, it has moved from 'state-led' capitalism to a kind of 'state-enhanced' capitalism, in which the state still plays an active albeit much reduced role, where CEOs exercise much greater autonomy, and labour relations have become much more market-reliant.
2015	New varieties of state capitalism: Strategic and governance implicationsWe analyze the new varieties of state capitalism in the 21<sup>st</sup> century and explore their implications in terms of both strategic and governance outcomes. We begin by discussing how the current theoretical perspectives conceptualize state-owned enterprises' strategic behavior. Then we introduce a stylized distinction between four broad, new varieties of state capitalism - wholly owned state-owned enterprises, the state as a majority investor, the state as a minority investor, and the state as a strategic supporter of specific sectors - and survey each type within the different theoretical perspectives. Last, we examine firm performance for each type of state capitalism relative to private firms and contingent on country-level institutional contingencies. This article contributes to existing debates on comparative capitalisms and the current role of the state.
2018	Analysis of Korea's long-term growth process and lessons for sustainable development policyThis paper analyzes Korea?셲 growth process, not only rapid but also sustained for six decades at 6% per year. The sources of such growth were balanced among labor market demographic factors, capital investment, human capital accumulation, and productivity growth. However, the main engine of growth evolved sequentially, e.g., labor and human capital factors in the 1960s, capital deepening in the 1970s, and then productivity growth for the following periods. We found that major sources of the six-decade sustained growth were productivity growth and human capital accumulation rather than the expansion of labor force or capital investment. Counterfactual analysis of neoclassical growth model reveals that the accelerated productivity growth after the fast capital deepening was the key to Korea?셲 long-term growth, avoiding the middle-income trap. Appropriate calibration of the neoclassical growth model allowing time-varying transitional growth parameters explains Korea?셲 growth experience well and provides useful lessons for sustainable development policy.
2016	Towards a definition of knowledge graphsRecently, the term knowledge graph has been used frequently in research and business, usually in close association with Semantic Web technologies, linked data, large-scale data analytics and cloud computing. Its popularity is clearly influenced by the introduction of Google's Knowledge Graph in 2012, and since then the term has been widely used without a definition. A large variety of interpretations has hampered the evolution of a common understanding of knowledge graphs. Numerous research papers refer to Google's Knowledge Graph, although no official documentation about the used methods exists. The prerequisite for widespread academic and commercial adoption of a concept or technology is a common understanding, based ideally on a definition that is free from ambiguity. We tackle this issue by discussing and defining the term knowledge graph, considering its history and diversity in interpretations and use. Our goal is to propose a definition of knowledge graphs that serves as basis for discussions on this topic and contributes to a common vision.
2003	EXPORT-LED INDUSTRIALISATION AND GROWTH: KOREA'S ECONOMIC MIRACLE, 1962-1989During 1962-1989, South Korea underwent a remarkable economic transformation from being poverty-ridden to attaining the status of newly industrialised nation. This transformation was achieved through the adoption of an outward-oriented, industry-led strategy. It was based, particularly during the 1970s, upon the development of large-scale industrial conglomerates and the attainment of economies of scale and technology to achieve international competitiveness. By the early 1980s, this strategy had resulted in major structural imbalances, a weakened financial sector, heavy concentration in domestic markets, and a repressed development of small and medium enterprises. By the end of the 1980s, despite attempts at economic reform, the structural and financial problems remained and became the country's undoing during the crisis of 1997-1998. This article reviews the question whether Korea's performance during this period can be described as an economic miracle. The empirical evidence is mixed and inconclusive, although the achievements of the Korean economy should not be underestimated.
2012	The EU's Common Commercial Policy and Implications for Korea-EU RelationsThe European Union (EU)'s common commercial policy directly influences the economic relationship between Korea and the EU The EU-Korea Free Trade Agreement (FTA) is the first of the new generation of FTAs which were promoted under the Global Europe Strategy adopted in 2006. The EU-Korea FTA will improve Korean companies' position in the EU market as well as help the EU secure a foundation in a rapidly growing Asian market. Even though the trade benefits of the FTA can only be measured with certainty after five or ten years, the value of the EU-Korea FTA is likely to lay an institutional framework on the new relationship between Korea and the EU by establishing a strategic partnership between them.
2009	Korea's Tariff Rate Quota System: Impact of the Doha Development Agenda ProposalsThe analysis in this paper shows that quota administration methods have a significant impact on fill rates for Korea's TRQs. The proposed introduction of an under-fill mechanism in current Doha Round WTO negotiations, with a benchmark fill rate of 65 percent is likely to have important implications for Korea. According to our analysis, roughly 30 percent of current TRQ products would need to have increased imports. Static analysis using 47 tariff-quota equivalency test sheds light on whether it would be in Korea's interest to use the sensitive products' provisions in the draft agreement on agriculture to limit reductions in out-of-quota tariffs. Our analysis suggests that if Korea wishes to pursue the objective of minimizing import competition, it will need to give careful consideration to the choice of sensitive products. It may be preferable to implement the proposed reduction in tariffs in full for some products, rather than adopting smaller tariff reductions and increasing TRQs, particularly given the greater scrutiny that is proposed for fill rates under the proposed Doha Round agriculture agreement.
2016	Can China Change Its Industrialization Path? Beyond the 2004-2005 Industrial Policy Debate in ChinaThe chemical accident in Fujian Province in April 2015 and frequent winter smog that often covers a large number of eastern Chinese cities have resulted in policy debates similar to the one held 10 years ago. The topic of these debates is, Does China need to change its industrialization path? By reconsidering the 2004-2005 Debate, the paper will focus on the policy content behind the controversy of economic theories and beyond, namely, the relationship between the theories and formation of policies in which stages of diversification and the M-form of Chinese governance are highlights. We conclude that China has experienced environment-forcing and state-oriented economic development paradigm shift.
2015	The Effect of Population Aging on Local School Subsidies in KoreaThe recent growth in local school subsidies in Korea offers a chance to test the effect of population aging on public education expenditure. In the existing literature, the intergenerational conflict model suggests a negative effect, although a growing number of studies are finding theoretical and empirical evidence of a positive effect. After controlling for the district fixed effect, the analysis of the Korean data shows that the elderly population share has a significant positive effect on the local school subsidy per pupil. This result is robust after instrumenting the real proportion of the elderly population by the predicted proportion, assuming no population mobility, to handle the possible bias caused by Tiebout sorting.
2004	FACTS AND MYTHS ABOUT KOREA'S ECONOMIC PASTThe orthodoxy in South and North Korean historiography states that Japan's annexation of Korea in 1910 wrought havoc on indigenous economic development and started an era of exploitation lasting until 1945. Recent studies show the claim to be based less upon facts than upon Marxist dogma and nationalist sentiment. During the nineteenth century, Korea was not on the verge of modern economic growth, but in demographic and economic decline. Living standards improved and industrialisation occurred in the context of rapid population growth during the colonial period due to transfer of capital and advanced technology from Japan.
2007	A framework for the global data synchronization Network(GDSN) of a distribution companyGDSN is aimed to capture the real-time dynamic information about the flow of goods in the global supply chain. The Global Data Synchronization Network(GDSN) can automatically synchronize the static product information among trading partners. In this paper, system development-building outline and business development measures through a comprehensive framework for this are introduced Under the GDSN environment, in order to secure interoperability of the Korea Data Pool with other countries, attending authentication events and acquiring GDSN certification are both very important. The future GDSN linkage will be a cornerstone to materialize the Ubiquitous computing through standardization of RFID-applied technology.
2020	Are better-governed firms more innovative? Evidence from KoreaThis study examines the effect of corporate governance quality on firm innovation in Korea, where innovation is very active. We focus on the relationship between a firm's corporate governance score (CGS) and its innovation performance in various empirical settings using manually collected patent data. We find that CGS positively influences firm's innovation activity, which is driven by board's quality and transparent disclosure. This relationship is more evident in chaebol-affiliated firms, suggesting that sound corporate governance is effective in promoting innovation activities when the misalignment between managers' and other stakeholders' interests is grave.
2008	Identifying Leading Korean Industries and Firms Based on Patent and Export StatisticsThis paper aims to identify the leading industries and firms of Korea. It tries to make an industry classification based on the concept of technological trajectories, and identifies leading industries by analyzing export and US patent statistics and leading firms by analyzing world-class products and firms. Based on the results of the analysis on leading industries, the information-intensive type of industries has the highest lead index, but has a decreasing trend over the three-year period. The specialized-supplier type and the science-based type tend to increase their position at a rapid speed during the period of 2004-2006. As for specific industries, the shipbuilding industry appeared to have the highest lead index, followed by the electronic parts industry. In identifying the leading firms, it was found that the Chaebol firms have produced many world-class products. SMEs, classified as specialized-supplier and science-based firms, have also innovated technologies and have created good value for foreign wholesalers, thereby generating a large number of world-class products. These findings imply that the Korean economy has been moving at a positive direction. It is believed that the Korean industry has strengthened its technological capability to produce more high-value-added products with deeper scientific and technological knowledge than in the past. Certainly, the Korean industry requires creativity in order to accelerate this development and adopt a new innovation mode.
2009	Drivers and Impacts of ICT Adoption on Transport and Logistics ServicesThe availability of high-quality transport and logistics services (TLS) is of paramount importance for the growth and competitiveness of an economy. The objective of this paper is to describe how European companies in this industry use information and communication technology (ICT) for conducting business and to assess the impact of this development for firms and the industry as a whole. A comparison with some important Asia Pacific economies is also presented, indicating that some of these countries (Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan, and Korea) boast very good transport irifrastructure compared with the most developed European economies. Using the structure-conduct-performance (SCP) model and the bi-directional relationships of its elements, the paper identifies the links between ICT adoption and market structure, innovation dynamics, and firm performance. A set of recommendations on how to further improve the actual scenario of e-business in the TLS industry is also presented. The model could also be implemented in Asian countries.
2008	R&D Investment and Performance in Korea: Korean R&D Scoreboard 2005This study develops a parsimonious model demonstrating the association between R&D expenditure and firm performance according to previous theoretical models. We call the model the Korean R&D Scoreboard. This model extensively analyzes R&D investment in the 2004 financial statements of 550 selected firms in Korea. The Scoreboard purports to identify the characteristics of industrial R&D investments and the relationship between the R&D investments and firm performance. The Scoreboard shows that the industrial R&D investments of Korean firms heavily leaned toward a few number of industries and a limited number of very large firms. Compared to the previous years, the electric and electronics industry and automobile and transportation industry have intensified their R&D investments further while other industries with low R&D intensity decreased in 2004. The polarization phenomenon of R&D investments shows the trend of the rich getting richer and the poor getting poorer. The Scoreboard also shows that industrial R&D investments have a strong positive relationship with the firm performances measured in terms of productivity, profits, growth rates, number of patent applications, and market value in price earnings ratio (PER) of firms. The more intensive a firm's R&D investment, the higher the performance realized. Some policy implications based on these findings are suggested as follows: Policy measures to encourage medium-large firms to invest in R&D are urgently needed to alleviate R&D concentration problems at the firm level as well as at the industrial level. Providing incentives and environments for them to invest more in R&D activities shall most effectively lead the Korean knowledge-based economy to be more balanced in both the industrial and firm level. However, these policy measures should avoid traditional R&D subsidy and carefully examine some critical issues including balances 'among industries, services sector innovation, incentive mechanism at firm level.
2009	Comparative Analysis on the Performance Evaluation of National R&D ProjectsThis paper reviews and compares the performance evaluation system of research and development  programs in advanced countries and provides suggestions for its improvement. The programs reviewed are the Advanced Technology Program (ATP) in the United States, the Framework Program in the European Union (EU), technology development programs in Japan, and industrial technology development programs in Korea. The evaluation of the Korea Institute of Industrial Technology Evaluation and Planning (ITEP) mainly focuses on the economic effects of the project, therefore detailed information on commercialization such as sales volume, cost reduction, increase in market share, costs of commercialization, changes in price, changes in demand, causes of suspended commercialization, and employment effects is required. ATP's Performance Report is interested not only in commercialization but also in creation and dissemination of knowledge. The performance report in EU measures three dimensions of performance: the achievement of goals, the outputs and outcomes, and the macro impacts of the research projects. The evaluation in Japan, both in project and in program, balances between the achievement of national policy goals and the economic effects. The results suggest that qualitative evaluation factors indicating creation and dissemination of knowledge and the macro impacts of the research projects/programs should be considered in the evaluation system of ITEP. In conclusion, R&D performance evaluation system is necessary to measure the achievement of goals, outputs, outcomes, and impacts using a multidimensional performance indicator. This paper provides awareness and access to the best evaluation methods available for project managers.
2014	Access to Finance: An Empirical AnalysisFinancial access is gradually being recognised as an important input to economic development. Using World Bank (2007) database, this study measures the extent of financial access in developed and developing countries. Further, it develops a new Socio-Economic Development Index, which incorporates financial access. It then compares socio-economic development of various countries as shown by Human Development Index (HDI) alone and by the new index incorporating financial access. The results of the study show that Spain ranks highest in terms of financial access followed by Belgium, Malta and South Korea. In addition, the ranking of countries in terms of HDI changes if financial access is taken into account.
2011	A Gravity Model Analysis of Measuring Services Trade BarriersFor the past several decades, economic development in Korea has depended heavily on an export-led growth strategy focused on manufacturing. Services industries are less developed and less productive due to numerous protection policies interrupting competition. In recent years, the Korean government has developed a plan for service sector reform geared towards the development of the services industry. Achieving this goal requires strengthened competition through the reduction of trade barriers. The objective of this study is to measure the barriers to cross-border trade in Korean service sectors. Services trade barriers do not take the form of import tariffs, but rather of a complex variety of quantitative restrictions, prohibitions, and regulations. This study estimates tariff equivalents using a gravity model for overall services industries and for three traded service sectors of each of 47 countries. The estimate of tariff equivalents in overall Korean services is 73.3%, higher than the average tariff equivalent of 48.8% for 24 high-income Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) member countries, but lower than values for most developing countries. Specifically, we show that Korean business and financial services are comparatively sheltered from international competition, resulting in low levels of import penetration. However, Korea's transportation services are more open than the other sectors.
2009	Characteristics of the Client Sectors of R&D Services in KoreaThe Korean government has had difficulty in boosting the R&D services industry despite of the huge expectation for its potential benefits as a source of innovation facilitators. This paper argues that the initial key is not only in R&D service providers but also in R&D service client firms because the providers do not have a common ground in the outcome but rather in the function provided for diverse client firms. This paper categorizes manufacturing client sectors by their use of R&D services and investigates the behaviors of R&D services utilization by each sector group. As a result, it classifies client sectors into four groups, namely, new growth engine sectors, high-technology-based key industrial sectors, traditional industrial sectors, and consumer-goods sectors. The detailed characteristics of each group are determined by using a questionnaire survey. The study shows the need for a customized approach to R&D service development by client sectors.
2008	An Empirical Study on the Network Properties of Innovation in Clusters: The Social Capital AspectIn a knowledge-based society, knowledge is crucial to innovation. In terms of innovation input, firms look to their partners to seek knowledge to maximize their values by effectively combining the partner's resources and exploiting complementarities. Thus, it is impossible for a firm to possess all the knowledge for innovation. Delivery of information is harder with tacit knowledge than with explicit knowledge. In general, it is known that explicit knowledge can be a spillover through formal channels. On the contrary, tacit knowledge can be delivered with ease through informal channels. The purpose of this paper is to find whether the network activities based on social capital (trust and shared objective) differ in Korea clusters or not. Using data collected from multiple respondents in firms, it is found that there are no differences between formal and informal channels. As a means of knowledge transfer, formal channel is more effective than informal channel in Korea regardless of characteristics of firm, the size of firms, and pattern of innovation. To transfer knowledge based on tacit knowledge, social capital should be better cultivated among actors in clusters through policy implementation.
2009	Determinants of Knowledge Acquisition in Korean International Joint Ventures: A Pre- and Post-Asia Crisis ComparisonWe identify the key determinants of knowledge acquisition in a sample of South Korean IJVs. The Korean economic and business environment has changed dramatically since the 1997 Asia crisis. Given the dramatic environmental changes, a key question is whether the main determinants of knowledge acquisition in IJVs have changed accordingly. We address this issue by examining IJVs that were formed. before the crisis, and those that were formed afterwards. Regression models indicate that the three most powerful explanatory variables for knowledge acquisition, both pre- and post-crisis, are the participation of foreign expatriates, willingness to share foreign techniques, and the level of trust between the foreign and local partners. However, several differences arc, also found in the determinants of knowledge acquisition depending on whether the IJV was formed before or after the Asia crisis. A key general point of significance is that the relative importance of the determinants of knowledge acquisition in IJVs is conditional on the context in which they are examined
2010	An Analysis on Measuring the Economic Benefit of Free Trade Zones: Case Studies on Preliminary Feasibility Studies in KoreaThis paper explores the techniques used to estimate the economic benefits from land developing public investment projects such as free trade zones The purpose of this study is to create an estimation technique that can be used in feasibility studies Based on the techniques applied in prior studies, this paper will present a way to solve flaws found in previous estimation techniques This study considered the economic value added (EVA) created by free trade zones to be the economic benefits and researched methods that allowed the benefit value to be suitably applied to currently functioning feasibility evaluations Specifically, ways of differentiating between domestic and foreign enterprises as well as between new and pre-existing transfer investments when estimating the economic benefits were operating feasibility studies and assessed their suitability The methods presented in this analysis are applicable to actual feasibility tests, and the resulting estimations are in accordance with common standards. The contribution of this paper lays in the fact that this is among the first studies in Korea to discuss a method that measures economic benefit from free trade zone development projects on a practical level in such depth.
2010	Does a Home Market Model Explain the Korea-US Movie Trade?: An Empirical Analysis and Media Policy ImplicationsThe purpose of this study is to empirically investigate the determinants of market structure in the Korean film industry, specifically through the Korea - U. S. movie trade, by applying a home market economic model, i.e. the bigger the film-related revenue, the higher investment, the larger shares in domestic and foreign markets. Another purpose is to propose policy implications based on empirical results for the development of the Korean movie industry. Our results confirm that home market effects explain the fluctuating market share of Korean films in the domestic market. The existence of home market effects in determining film trade flow and the effects of domestic media policies on the growth of the national film infrastructure should be considered in the formulation of a domestic film policy. In particular, the importance of the domestic movie support base suggests deregulation of movie support media to increase the size of the Korean market and simultaneously increase Korean movies' shares of both foreign and domestic markets. American movies have kept a dominant position in the Korean movie industry mainly because the slow diffusion of movie support media in Korea is misdirected by protectionism and other similar policies. The recent increase in the share of the Korean market taken by locally-produced Korean movies may be explained by the deregulation of the domestic film industry and movie support media. As movie exporters, Korean film distributors who wish to exploit foreign markets should target those countries with low cultural discounts and poor movie infrastructure. More investment in the Korean movie industry would facilitate higher penetration of Korean movies into culturally homogeneous but lesser investing foreign markets.
2020	When Does Auto-Parts Suppliers' Innovation Reduce Their Dependence on the Automobile Assembler?Purpose - This study is to investigate the determinants of suppliers' dependence on buyers in the home country by developing a theoretical model of innovative activities. The high dependence of auto parts suppliers on a single local buyer in South Korea due to firm ownership issues and incremental innovation is examined using data from a set of organizations that supply intermediate goods to this automotive manufacturer. Furthermore, we tested the moderating effect of FDI and global knowledge sourcing on the relationship between firm ownership and suppliers' dependence on the local buyer. Design/methodology - To test the hypotheses, we examined a sample of 101 suppliers over 10 years in the Korean automobile parts industry. In this empirical analysis, we utilized a fixed-effects generalized least squares model using panel data. Findings - In this study, domestic firms (automobile parts suppliers) were more dependent on a single local buyer (automobile assembler) than foreign-owned suppliers operating in Korea. In addition, incremental innovation was the mediating mechanism between domestic firms and dependence on the local buyer. To reduce this dependence on the buyer, we suggest two different international strategies: geographical diversification through FDI and global knowledge sourcing. Originality/value - Previous studies showed that asymmetric dependence between firms has many adverse effects. This study proved that domestic and foreign-owned suppliers have different levels of dependence on local buyers due to their heterogeneous characteristics and business strategies. We distinguish two different types of innovation - radical innovation and incremental innovation - that previous studies have often treated as equal when it comes to firm autonomy. Finally, we propose that both FDI and international knowledge sourcing as global strategies to weaken suppliers' asymmetric dependence on a single buyer.
2009	Energy Cooperation and Emerging Regionalism in North-East Asia: Relative Impact on APEC and ASEM in Terms of Inter-RegionalismIt may be rather imperative for North-East Asia to reinforce the processes of energy cooperation and economic integration simultaneously if one takes full account of the development trajectory of the ECSC The EU launched a common energy policy in 2007 as a means of pooling together the capabilities of member nations in order to cope with such complicated issues as energy market liberalization, deregulation, fortified market power of Russia in strategic mineral resources, the increased instability of the Middle East and the impact of energy policy on the environment. It may be also beneficial for China, Japan and Korea to put in place a supra-national institution that would plan, coordinate and implement a common energy policy by analyzing the past experience of the EU. Such a movement towards regionalism in North-East Asia may work as a catalyst for extending cooperation with the EU, thus increasing ASEM's leverage compared to APEC via cumulative feedbacks between expanding markets and the process of technological innovation.
2013	Do contagion effects exist in capital flow volatility?The cross-border transmission of a financial shock has been a subject of rich literature. While a large number of studies have focused on the phenomenon of strong co-movements of asset prices and capital flows in the event of financial stress, very few discussed the contagion or spillover effects in terms of capital flow volatility. This paper is one of the first attempts to assess, empirically, whether or not there is a global and regional spillover effect in the volatility of capital flows to emerging and developing countries. Based on the sample of 49 emerging and developing countries for the period 1980-2009, the empirical results suggest strong and significant contagion effects in the volatility of capital flows to individual economies. The magnitudes of contagion vary depending on the type of capital flows, whether it is foreign direct investment (FDI) or portfolio and other investment (mostly bank lending). The findings also suggest the volatility dynamics of gross flows is different from that of net flows. The volatility of net inflows is more exposed to intra-regional contagion compared to that of gross inflows. J. Japanese Int. Economies 30 (2013) 76-95. Department of International Trade and Business, Kangwon National University, South Korea; Economics and Research Department, Asian Development Bank, Philippines. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
2007	Asian currency crisis and the international monetary fund, 10 years later: OverviewThis paper is an overview of the Asian currency crisis in Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea in 1997-1998, with an emphasis on the role of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It provides a detailed account of the development of the crisis and analyses and evaluates the content of IMF advice and its consequences. The size of the IMF package for each of these three countries is judged to have been too small. This paper also has a comparative perspective; the Mexican crisis is reviewed as a precursor to the Asian crisis to see what the IMF learned, and how it prepared, for future crises. The causes of the crises and IMF conditionality for the post-Asian crisis countries, Russia, Brazil, Turkey, and Argentina, are also compared to the Asian crisis countries. By agreeing to maintain a fixed exchange rate, for example, the IMF is judged to have been softer in its approach to the post-Asian crisis countries.
2013	Evolution of industrial policies and economic growth in Korea: Challenges, crises and responsesThis paper examines the evolution of industrial policies andeconomic growth in Korea by focusing on the effects of twoeconomic crises in 1997 and 2008. Korea successfully surpassed thetwo big economic crises with the support of the industrialrestructuring policies and the appropriate responses of privateand public actors. Past Korean economic growth resulted from thedevelopment of manufacturing for export, which were driven by thehigh growth of Korean conglomerates,chaebols. Activeinfrastructure investment, such as social overhead capitals andindustrial complexes played pivotal roles at the beginning of theeconomic development. Although input-driven growth strategy ledduring the initial stage of economic development, innovation-driven industrial policies were magnified later in the focus onR&D and technological progress. In addition, the implementation ofregion-based industrial innovation policies, such as industrialcluster policies, obtained relatively successful results
1982	The private sector as “principal engine” of development: Korea-How the private sector played a critical role in Korea’s economic growthPolitical commitment, supportive policies, and a legacy of economic modernization have enabled the private sector to play a critical role in Korea’s economic growth.
2014	Two Faces of Government-Business Relations During South Korea's Developmental PeriodSouth Korea's economic development has been characterized as a miracle due to its unprecedented speed and success. However, it has also been noted that a high level of distributive equity and poverty reduction were achieved in parallel with rapid growth. This paper argues that the first-order development goals of the state throughout the 1960s and 1970s were pursued in such a manner so as to be maximally inclusive of citizens in the developmental project. It is further argued that the country's industrial conglomerates played a dual function as engines of economic growth and instruments through which citizen wellbeing was enhanced. This paper reviews the mechanisms by which the Korean government influenced business, and discusses Korea's multifunctional industrialization and labor policies. Finally, the deinstitutionalization of the business sector's multifunctional role is detailed, and future challenges for Korea's modern welfare state are suggested.
2003	Reforming Korea's industrial conglomeratesWhen what was to become the Asian financial crisis of 1997 broke out in Thailand, few analysts predicted that this crisis would spread to South Korea. Korea, after all, had risen from poverty to become one of the "Asian miracle economies". However, the crisis did not spare Korea, and the Korean government was forced to negotiate a bailout from the International Monetary Fund in late 1997. In 1998, the Korean economy went into the deepest recession recorded in that country since the Korean War. Many of the underlying problems were homegrown. Huge amounts of debt had been amassed by Korea's large industrial conglomerates (the chaebol), and often the funds had been invested in undertakings that were not earning satisfactory rates of return. By the end of 1998, a number of smaller conglomerates had failed and one of the top five (Daewoo) was in serious trouble and eventually would fail.* In this study, author Edward M. Graham examines how this situation arose, tracing its roots to the aggressive industrial policy begun by Korean strongman president Park Chung-hee during the late 1960s. Graham notes that a major failing of Korea during the "miracle-economy" years was that the financial sector in Korea remained underdeveloped and thus never was able to develop a counterweight to the economic and political power that, over time, the chaebol acquired. The crisis of 1997 can be seen as the culminating event of that asymmetry that was created by Korean industrial policy, i.e., very powerful industrial groups that operated without the countervailing power of financial institutions. Graham then looks at the efforts at reform since 1997, including reform of the financial sector and the chaebol themselves. He concludes that, while much progress has been made, the reform has been uneven and is far from complete.
2013	Understanding Korean capitalism: Chaebols and their corporate governanceChaebols, Korean big business conglomerates, have had a huge influence in the globaleconomy and in Korean society and politics. Some stress the significant contributionchaebols have made to the unprecedented rapid development of the Korean economy, whileothers highlight their concomitant problems such as cronyism, corrupt relations withgovernment, and economic concentration. Although such problems seem to have beenreduced in recent years thanks to institutional pressures enacted by the Korean governmentafter the financial crisis of 1997, the pending reforms of the chaebol system are still importantissues that permeate political and economic debate in Korea.In what follows, we will explore the unique characteristics of the chaebols, their relations withgovernment, and the virtues and vices of this Korean capitalist model that does not operatealong the lines of its European and Anglo-American counterparts.
2009	State capitalism comes of age-the end of the free marketThe recent wave of state intervention in emerging-market countries, a reaction to the current global recession, signals that the free-market tide has receded. In its place has come state capitalism, a system in which the state functions as the leading economic actor. The United States' best response is to lead by example in promoting the free market.
1994	Dynamics of Korean Economic Development, TheOne of Korea's most distinguished economists and teachers offers a new and critical appraisal of his country's postwar development. Dr. Cho argues that Korea's development strategy since 1960 achieved extraordinary growth rates, but it also contributed to structural imbalances that will impede Korea's entry into the ranks of the advanced industrial countries unless they are corrected. These structural problems include concentration of economic and political power in large industrial conglomerates, retarded development of small and medium-sized enterprises essential for entrepreneurship and technological innovation, an inadequate private financial services sector, and costly labor strife. Dr. Cho concludes that Korea must undertake a "great transition" in order to sustain growth and democratization. He recommends policies to reduce industrial concentration, establish a competitive pricing system (particularly in the financial sector), promote small and medium-sized enterprises, improve labor-management relations, and encourage investment in human capital.
